[open to morty’s room] 
rick: (stumbles in drunkenly, and turns on the lights) morty! you gotta come on. jus... you gotta come with me. 
morty: (rubs his eyes) what, rick? what's going on? 
rick: i got a surprise for you, morty. 
morty: it's the middle of the night. what are you talking about? 
rick: (spills alcohol on morty's bed) come on, i got a surprise for you. (drags morty by the ankle) come on, hurry up. (pulls morty out of his bed and into the hall) 
morty: ow! ow! you're tugging me too hard! 
rick: we gotta go, gotta get outta here, come on. got a surprise for you morty. 
[cut to rick's ship] 
rick: (rick drives through the night sky) what do you think of this... flying vehicle, morty? i built it outta stuff i found in the garage. 
morty: yeah, rick... i-it's great. is this the surprise? 
rick: morty. i had to... i had to do it. i had i had to i had to make a bomb, morty. i had to create a bomb. 
morty: what?! a bomb?! 
rick: we're gonna drop it down there just get a whole fresh start, morty. create a whole fresh start. 
morty: t-t-that's absolutely crazy! 
rick: come on, morty. just take it easy, morty. it's gonna be good. right now, we're gonna go pick up your little friend jessica. 
morty: jessica? from my math class? 
rick: (puts an arm around morty s shoulders) when i drop the bomb you know, i want you to have somebody, you know? i want you to have the thing. i'm gonna make it like a new adam and eve, and you're gonna be adam. 
morty: ohh... 
rick: and jessica's gonna be eve. 
morty: whhhh-wha? 
rick: and so that's the surprise, morty. 
morty: no, you can't! (shoves rick away) jessica doesn't even know i exist! but but, but forget about that, because you can't blow up humanity! 
rick: i-i get what you're trying to say, morty. listen, i'm not... (spills alcohol down his shirt) you don't got... y-you don t gotta worry about me trying to fool around with jessica or mess around with jessica or anything. i'm not that kind of guy, morty. 
morty: what are you talking about, rick? 
rick: you-you don't have to worry about me getting with jessica or anything. sh-sh-she she, she, she's all for you, morty. 
morty: i don't care about jessica! y-yyyyyyyyyyou 
rick: you know what, morty? you're right. (throws empty bottle into the backseat) let's forget the girl altogether. she, she's probably nothing but trouble, anyways. (presses a button) 
robot voice: arming neutrino bomb. 
morty: (unbuckles his seatbelt) that's it... that's it, rick. i'm taking the wheel. (jumps up on rick and starts fighting with him over control of the wheel) 
rick: get off of me, morty! (they begin to talk over each other) 
morty: i'm taking charge of this situation, buddy! (starts kicking rick's face while grabbing the wheel) i'm put i m, i'm, i'm, i'm puttin ... i-i m, i m, i m not gonna stand around like some sort of dumb... dumb person and just le-let you ruin the whole world! 
rick: (at the same time) come on! what s gotten into you? if you love earth so much why don t you marry it? (pushes morty) what are you, crazy? alright, alright, morty. (pushes morty off of him) 
rick: alright. i'll-i'll land. i'll land. i'll land. i'll land the thing. i ll land the thing. big tough guy all of a sudden. 
[cut to desert] 
rick: (rick lands the cruiser in an open desert; he opens the door and tumbles out among dozens of empty alcohol cans and bottles) we'll park it right here, morty. right here on the side of the ree... road here. 
morty: oh, thank god. 
rick: you know what? that was all a test, morty. just an elaborate test to make you more assertive. 
morty: it was? 
rick: sure. why not? i don t, i don't know. y-you know what, mo (falls asleep and begins snoring) 
robot voice: neutrino bomb armed. 
morty: um... 
[cut to opening theme] 
[open to smith residence, dining room] 
jerry: i see there's a new episode of that singing show tonight. who do you guys think is gonna be the best singer? (morty falls asleep at the table, smashing his face into his plate) 
summer: oh my god, his head is in his food. i'm going to puke. 
beth: morty, are you getting sick? (morty lifts his head, clearly exhausted, and wipes food from his face) i told you not to practice-kiss the living room pillow. the dog sleeps on it. 
morty: i wasn't kissing a pillow, mom. i just i didn't get a lot of sleep last night. maybe my dreams were just too loud or something. 
summer: or maybe you were out all night again with grandpa rick. 
jerry: what? 
beth: dad? 
rick: what, so everyone's supposed to sleep every single night now? you realize that nighttime makes up half of all time? 
jerry: damn it! 
beth: jerry! 
jerry: beth! 
summer: oh my god, my parents are so loud, i want to die. 
rick: mm, there is no god, summer. you gotta rip that band-aid off now. you'll thank me later. 
jerry: (glaring at rick) okay, with all due respect, rick what am i talking about? what respect is due? how is my son supposed to pass his classes if you keep dragging him off for high-concept sci-fi rigamarole? 
rick: listen, jerry. i-i-i don't want to overstep my bounds or anything. it's your house. it's your world. you're a real julius caesar but i'll tell you something tell you how i feel about school, jerry. it's a waste of time. (jerry stares incredulously at him) buncha people running around, bumping into each other. g-guy up front says,"two plus two."the people in the back say,"four."then the then the bell rings, and they give you a carton of milk and a piece of paper that says you can go take a dump or something. i mean, it's not a place for smart people, jerry. and i know that's not a popular opinion, but it's my two cents on the issue. (wipes his mouth and gets up, stopping behind beth and putting a hand on her shoulder) this was a good breakfast, beth. you really made the crap out of those eggs. i wish your mother was here to eat them. (rick gives beth a kiss and walks away) 
beth: (tears up in happiness) oh, dad 
jerry: what? for real? (morty's face slams into his plate again) 
[cut to ext. harry herpson high school] 
mr goldenfold: alright, now, everybody get settled. get away from the windows! 
[cut to int. mr. goldenfold’s class] 
mr goldenfold: now, look, we're gonna be dealing with some real serious stuff today. you might have heard of it. it's called math? and without it, none of us would even exist, so let's jump right in. two plus two. 
all classmates except morty: four. (morty, sitting in the back row, stares at jessica, who sits in the front row, answering jessica s name for the questions) 
morty: jessica. 
mr goldenfold: five plus five. 
all classmates except morty: ten. 
morty: jessica. (jessica hears morty and looks back, confused, not sure who s saying her name) 
mr goldenfold: okay, good. it's time for the quiz. 
class: awwwwww. 
mr goldenfold: yeah, you know what?! aw, too bad! tough! first row, take one. pass it back for me. the stakes are high in this room. (morty stares at the quiz; the numbers on the quiz jumble together as morty falls asleep) there's crucial things happening here every day. people getting smarter. some of y'all getting dumber. some of y'all ain't gonna see 3 00. (morty falls into a dream world filled with large number-shaped blocks; jessica steps out from behind some of the numbers) 
jessica: hi, morty. 
morty: whoa! hi, jessica. 
jessica: can i show these to you? (jessica opens her shirt, showing morty her breasts) 
morty: wow. th-they're both great. thank you! 
jessica: you know what i named these? my little morties. 
morty: (rubs the back of his neck) uh, that's flattering... and a little weird. 
jessica: do you know what i want you to do with them? 
morty: rename them? 
jessica: squeeze them. manhandle them. give them the business. see if you can shuffle them. i mean, really get in there and knock them around. no wrong answers. 
morty: wow. well, okay, jessica. l-let's give this a shot. (morty grabs her breasts and starts fondling her) 
jessica: mm. oh, morty. what are you doing to me? 
morty: uh, i-i'm just doing my best. (in real life, class has ended and morty is fondling mr. goldenfold) 
mr goldenfold: morty! what are you doing to me?! 
morty: (sleep-talking) ah, jessica. 
mr goldenfold: morty! 
morty: jessica. 
mr goldenfold: five more minutes of this, and i'm gonna get mad. (leans back and bites his lip) 
morty: je-jessica. jessica. 
mr goldenfold: not my fault this is happening. 
[cut to hallway] 
frank: (morty is at his locker, where he is confronted by a bully, frank palicky) well, well, well. 
morty: uh, morning, frank. 
frank: (pins morty to his locker)"morning"? what was what is that supposed to mean? you making fun of me? are you trying to say my family's poor? (takes out a pocket knife and points it at morty's neck) 
morty: oh, geez, frank. i don't know if a knife is necessary. i mean, you know, y-you kind of had things handled without it. 
frank: you telling me how to bully now? big mistake, morty and now i'm gonna cut you,'cause my family's rich. (frank suddenly freezes and rick steps out from behind him) 
rick: there you are, morty. listen to me. i got an errand to run in a whole different dimension. i need an extra pair of hands. 
morty: oh, geez, rick. w-w-what'd you do to frank? 
rick: it's pretty obvious, morty. i froze him. now listen i need your help, morty. i mean, we got we got to get get the hell out of here and go take care of business. (burps) it's important. come on, morty. 
morty: i don't know, rick. i can't leave school again. 
rick: do you have any concept of how much higher the stakes get out there, morty? what do you think i can just do it all by myself? come on! 
morty: aw, geez. okay. i guess i can skip history. what about frank? i mean, shouldn't you unfreeze him? 
rick: i'll do it later, morty. he'll be fine. let's go. (takes off with morty and then summer comes by, seeing frank's frozen body) 
summer in her head: oh, my god. i'm about to walk past frank palicky. this is the story we'll be telling our children. (walks up to frank and talks to him, oblivious to the fact that he's frozen) 
summer: hi, frank. (frank's frozen foot breaks and he drops to the ground and shatters into a million pieces, dying) 
summer: aaaaaaaaaaahhhhh!!!!!!! 
[cut to horse hospital] 
beth: (performing heart surgery on a horse) scalpel. 
davin: scalpel. (jerry enters the room) 
jerry: knock, knock. 
beth: jerry? 
jerry: my manager gave me an hour for lunch, and i thought,"hey, why not swing by where your wife works?" (the heart rate for the horse starts beeping really fast) 
tom: (offscreen) we're losing him. (beth adjusts the horse's organs) 
tom: (offscreen) okay, he's back. 
beth: jerry, please tell me you're here for an incredibly urgent reason. 
jerry: well, it's lunch. i mean, it's one of three meals that have existed for millennia. (the heart rate starts beeping again) 
tom: (offscreen) losing him. (beth adjusts the organs again) 
tom: (offscreen) stabilized. 
beth: okay, i only ask, jerry, because, as you know, my job involves performing heart surgery. 
jerry: well, yeah, on horses. 
beth: excuse me? 
jerry: okay, let's not rehash that fight. i sense that you're busy and will now be on my way. (drops a pamphlet on the ground) 
jerry: whoa! what is this on the floor? some kind of literature for a really nice-looking nursing home. hey, honey, crazy idea bad pitch let's put your dad here. let's put your dad in a nursing home. (beth looks at jerry angrily and the heart hate starts beeping again) 
tom: (offscreen) we're losing him. 
beth: hey, tom! we know when we're losing him. we can hear the beeps! 
[cut to alleyway] 
rick: there she is. all right. come on, morty. let's go. 
morty: oh, geez, okay. (rick and morty go through the portal and end up in a crazy alternate dimension) 
morty: oh, man, rick. what is this place? 
rick: it's dimension 35-c, and it's got the perfect climate conditions for a special type of tree, morty, called a mega tree, and there's fruit in those trees, and there's seeds in those fruits. i'm talking about mega seeds. they're they're incredibly powerful, and i need them to help me with my research, morty. 
morty: oh, man, rick. i'm looking around this place, and i'm starting to work up some anxiety about this whole thing. 
rick: all right, all right, calm down. listen to me, morty. i know that new situations can be intimidating. you're looking around, and it's all scary and different, but, you know, m-meeting them head on, charging right into them like a bull that's how we grow as people. i'm no stranger to scary situations. i deal with them all the time. now, if you just stick with me, morty, we're gonna be (a gigantic alien monster suddenly appears behind them) 
rick: holy crap, morty run!!! (they take off, running in complete and total fear as the monster chases them) 
rick: i never seen that thing before in my life. i don't even know what the hell it is! we got to get out of here, morty! it's gonna kill us! we're gonna die! we're gonna die, morty! 
[cut to black] 
rick: (having apparently escaped, they are walking through dimension 35-c, continuing their adventure) oh, morty, take a deep breath. breathe that breathe that fresh air in, morty. y-you smell that? that's the smell of adventure, morty. that's that's the smell of-of-of-of a whole different evolutionary timeline. 
morty: all right, rick, look how much longer is this gonna be? shouldn't i be back at school by now? 
rick: are you joking me? i mean, look at all the crazy crap surrounding us. look at that thing right there. (a weird looking monster is seen cooing and rolling around on the ground) what the hell is that thing? you think you're gonna see that kind of thing at school? (offscreen) look at it just lumbering around. (onscreen) it defies all logic, that thing. 
morty: yeah, rick, i get it. we're surrounded by monsters. that's kind of the reason why i want to leave. (they come up to a cliff and rick stops him there) 
rick: ta-ta-ta-ta-ta-ta. morty, you see this? (he and morty are looking down upon a vast forest of interdimensional trees) 
rick: you see what we just stumbled upon, morty? any idea what that is down there? 
morty: the mega trees? 
rick: that's right, morty the mega trees with the mega fruit on them and that's what i'm talking about, morty. that's where my seeds are. if we would have done what you wanted, i would have never have found them, because you're so in love with school. 
morty: all right, all right. so, what's so special about these seeds, anyways? 
rick: you ask a lot of questions, morty. not very charismatic. it makes you kind of an (burps) under- (burps) underfoot figure. (rick gives morty a pair of shoes and morty proceeds to put them on) 
rick: just take these shoes, morty. they're (burps) special grappling shoes. when you're wearing these things, these babies, you can basically just walk on any surface you want, morty up, down, below, turn around to the left. these things really bring it all together. 
morty: (walks off the cliff and plummets to the ground, screaming and smashing into rocks) aaaaaaahhhh!!!!!! 
rick: you have to turn them on, morty! the shoes have to be turned on! 
[cut to hospital] 
beth: i am not putting my father in a home! he just came back into my life, and you want to grab him and stuff him under a mattress like last month's victoria's secret? 
jerry: i told you i was ordering you something for valentine's day. more importantly, your father is a horrible influence on our son. 
davin: everything cool in here, beth? 
beth: it's fine, davin. 
davin: okay, cool. you know, we did something great today. there's nothing more noble and free than the heart of a horse. (jerry closes the door on davin) 
jerry: since we're fighting, if you ever have an affair with that guy, i will come to the hotel room and blow my brains out all over your naked bodies. 
beth: look, i appreciate the stress you're under, but morty was having trouble in school way before my dad moved in, and the only influence i can see rick having is that, for the first time in his life, morty has a friend. (the phone starts ringing) 
jerry: (sighs) well, maybe you're right. 
beth: uh, yeah, maybe i am. i'm my father's daughter. i'm smart. why do you think i'm a heart surgeon? 
jerry: (coughs) ahem, horse heart surgeon. (beth answers the phone and gets a call from morty's principal, gene vagina) 
principal vagina: hello? mrs. smith? this is principal vagina, no relation. i wonder if you and morty's father might be able to have a chat with me this afternoon? 
[cut to dimension 35-c] 
rick: (standing by morty, who is lying on the ground with his legs broken) morty, oh, you really d-did a number on (offscreen) your legs right now. you know, you got to turn (onscreen) the shoes on, morty, for them to work. yeah, look i turned mine on. i had no problem getting down here. it was a leisurely breeze. 
morty: i'm in a lot of pain, rick! 
rick: yeah, i can see that. but do you think you'll still be able to help me collect my seeds, morty? 
morty: are you kidding me?! that's it, rick! that's the last straw! i can't believe this! i'm sitting here with both of my legs broken, and you're still asking me about getting those seeds?! ooh! ow! oh! y-y-you're a monster. y-you're like hitler, but-but even hitler cared about germany or something. 
rick: okay, hold on just a second, morty. (opens another portal and leaves morty behind, lying on the ground to suffer for a few seconds) 
morty: ooh! ohh! ooh! hnngh! hoo! ooh! ohh! aaaaagh! oooooh! (rick finally returns and injects morty's legs with medicine, healing them to perfection) 
morty: ooh, ohh, ooh. wow, rick. that stuff just healed my broken legs instantly. i mean, i've never felt so good in my life. thank you. 
rick: don't worry about it, morty. just come help me get these seeds, all right, buddy? 
morty: sure thing, rick. (goes up the tree and gets the mega fruit while rick talks to him) 
rick: not that you asked, morty, but what just happened there is i went into a future dimension with such advanced medicine that they had broken-leg serum at every corner drugstore. (offscreen) the stuff was all over the place, morty. 
morty: wow, that's pretty crazy, rick. 
rick: there's just one problem, morty one little hang-up. the dimension i visited was so advanced, that (burps) they had also halted the aging process, and everyone there was young, morty, and they had been forever. i was the only old person there, morty. (burps) it was like i was some sort of, you know, celebrity, walking around. i-i was fascinating to them. there were a lot of attractive women there, morty, and they-they-they they all wanted time with me. i had a lot of fun with a lot of young ladies, but i spent so much time there, my interdimensional portal device it's got no charge left, morty. it's got no charge left. 
morty: what?! 
rick: it's as good as garbage, morty. it's not gonna work anymore, morty. 
morty: oh, geez, rick, that's not good. w-what are we gonna do? i-i have to be back at school right now. how are we gonna get back home? 
rick: there's ways to get back home, morty. it's just it's just gonna be a little bit of a hassle. we're gonna have to go through interdimensional customs, so you're gonna have to do me a real solid. 
morty: uh-oh. 
rick: when we get to customs, i'm gonna need you to take these seeds into the bathroom, and i'm gonna need you to put them way up inside your butthole, morty. 
morty: in my butt? 
rick: put them way up inside there, as far as they can fit. 
morty: oh, geez, rick. i really don't want to have to do that. 
rick: well, somebody's got to do it, morty. th-these seeds aren't gonna get through customs unless they're in someone's rectum, morty 
morty: uuuh. 
rick: and they'll fall right out of mine. i've done this too many times, morty. i mean, you're young. y-y-you've got your whole life ahead of you, and your anal cavity is still taut, yet malleable. you got to do it for grandpa, morty. y- (burps) you've got to put these seeds inside your butt. 
morty: in my butt? 
rick: come on, morty. please, morty. you have to do it, morty. 
morty: oh, man. 
[cut to high school] 
principal vagina: the fact is, your son, morty, has attended this school for a total of seven hours over the last two months. 
beth: what? why didn't you notify us? 
principal vagina: i done been notifying you. have you not been getting the messages i've been leaving with morty's grandfather? 
jerry: boom! told you! in your face! he is ruining our child! wait, what am i celebrating? 
principal vagina: yeah, see, i thought something was fishy there, because it's usually morty's grandpa that's taking him out of school. (they stop to see summer and some other students, crying at an obituary for frank) 
beth: summer? 
summer: (sobs) what kind of god lets this happen? 
principal vagina: we had a little incident. a student was frozen to death. (chuckles) and there's no evidence that a latino student did it! everyone wants to take this to a racial place. i won't let them. 
[cut to intergalactic customs] 
announcer: the glarp zone is for flarping and unglarping only. 
alien: so, i told him,"give me the blimfarx,"you know? this-this guy he doesn't understand interstellar currency. 
alien: it's, like, i'm trying to eat a flimflam like, that's what we eat on girvonesk. 
announcer: the glarp zone is for flarping and unglarping only. 
rick: (morty comes up to him, who is waiting in line to get through security) i don't like it here, morty. i can't abide bureaucracy. i don't like being told where to go and what to do. i consider it a violation. did you get those seeds all the way up your butt? 
morty: yeah, rick. let's just get this over with, okay? i mean, these things are pointy. they hurt. 
rick: that means they're good ones. you're a good kid, morty. those mega seeds are super valuable to my work. you've been a huge help to me. i'm gonna be able to do a- 
(burps) all kind of things with them. it's gonna be great, morty. a- (burps) all kinds of science. (aliens are going through security with a gromflomite, letting them through) 
gromflomite: okay, next through. (stops morty) except you. you go over there. 
rick: why does he have to go over there? 
gromflomite: random check. he's got to go through the new machine. 
rick: what new- (burps) what new machine? 
gromflomite: it's a new machine. it detects stuff all the way up your butt. 
rick: run, morty! run! (grabs morty and they run through security and dart for the exit) 
morty: aaaaaah! 
gromfomite: red alert! (team of gromflomites starts chasing after rick and morty) 
morty: ohhhhh! (rick pushes over a giant capsule, with an alien fetus over, smashing some gromflomites, to slow them down) 
morty: ohhhhhh! (an alien is seen smoking a hookah and morty runs past him and accidentally inhales the smoke from the hookah while rick comes from behind and slaps the alien in the face, causing the alien to cry; he then coughs up a life form from the smoke and the lifeform starts running through the glarp zone and goes through the entire aging process from developing fetus to decomposing corpse, over the course of three seconds) 
morty: aaaaah! 
rick: don't think about it! (he and morty are cornered but morty activates the grappling shoes and runs up the wall with rick) 
rick: ooh! oh, nice, morty! the student becomes the teacher. (the gromflomites reveal that they can fly and then rick and morty start running away) 
morty: whoooooo! (he and rick run through the equipment on the ceiling, before they slip off to the ground) 
alien: aah! aw, hell, no, dawg. you know me i'm just trying to (rick and morty crash to the ground and he dies; they then run to the portal computer) 
rick: i need to type in the coordinates to our home world, morty. cover me. (he tosses morty a gun) 
morty: oh, man. i mean, you know, i-i don't want to shoot nobody. 
rick: they're just robots, morty! it's okay to shoot them! they're robots! (morty shoots a glenn, blowing his leg off, and making blood gush out as he drops down in pain) 
glenn: aaaaah! my leg is shot off! 
other gromflomite: glenn's bleeding to death! someone call his wife and children! 
morty: they're not robots, rick! 
rick: it's a figure of speech, morty. they're bureaucrats. i don't respect them. just keep shooting, morty. you have no idea what prison is like here! (morty continues shooting the gromflomites and even kills some innocent bystanders while rick hacks into the portal to take them back home) 
morty: holy crap! this is insane! (rick opens the portal and takes morty in with him) 
rick: come on, morty! we got to get the hell out of here! (the portal opens up in the lunchroom at school and rick and morty land on the table where jessica and her friends are eating) 
jessica: wow. did you just come into the cafeteria through a portal? 
morty: uh, yeah. well, you know, my-my ferrari's in the shop. (nervously laughs) just kidding. 
jessica: you're morty, right? 
morty: yeah. (rick grabs morty and takes him way) 
rick: you can get his number later. come on, morty. we got to get out of here. you got to get those seeds out of your ass. (rick and morty are stopped by jerry, beth, and principal vagina) 
jerry: oh, look, honey. it's our son with albert ein-douche. 
beth: what? 
jerry: i'm an angry father, not an improviser. 
rick: oh, hi, jerry. oh, my goodness, morty! what are you doing out of class? we talked about this. your-your parents and i are very disappointed in-in this behavior... no? no takers? (rick and morty are back at home in the garage while jerry and beth start taking all his things and packing them up so he can move to the nursing home) 
rick: you guys should really not be touching that stuff. it's beyond your reasoning. 
jerry: you're beyond our reasoning! 
rick: takes one to know one. 
beth: dad, how could you make my son miss an entire semester of school? i mean, it's not like he's a hot girl. he can't just bail on his life and set up shop in someone else's. 
rick: what what are you guys doing with my stuff? 
beth: we're moving you to a nursing home. 
rick: a nursing home? what are what are you, nuts? i'm a genius. i build robots for fun. 
jerry: well, now you can build baskets and watch paul newman movies on vhs and mentally scar the boy scouts every christmas. 
beth: what does that mean? 
jerry: it's personal. 
morty: dad, mom, come on. rick just needed my help is all. 
jerry: morty, stay out of this. you are obviously not capable of judging these situations on your own. 
rick: what are you trying to say about morty? that he's stupid or something? 
beth: oh, don't high-road us, dad. you know fully well that morty is the last child that needs to be missing classes. 
rick: i-i-i don't know what you mean by that. can can can you be a little bit more specific? 
jerry: oh, for crying out he's got some kind of disability or something. is that what you want us to say? 
morty: i do? 
jerry: well, duh doy, son. look, i love you, morty, but we both know you're not as fast as the other kids, and if you want to compete in this world, you got to work twice as hard. 
morty: aw, geez, dad. y-you know, that's a lot to drop on a kid all at once. 
rick: morty, t-tell your parents the square root of pi. 
morty: oh, come on, rick. you know i can't. 
rick: the square root of pi, morty. go! 
morty: 1.77245385... whoa! 
beth: what the hell? 
jerry: (checks morty's answer with calculator) holy crap. he's right. 
rick: morty, tell your parents the first law of thermodynamics. 
morty:"the increment in the internal energy of a system is equal to the increment of heat supplied to the system."wow! i'm so smart! 
jerry: but 
rick: i told the both of you school is stupid. it's not how you learn things. morty's a gifted child. he has a special mind. that's why he's my little helper. he's like me. he's gonna be doing great science stuff later in his life. he's too smart for school. he needs to keep hanging out and helping me. 
beth: jerry, i don't want whatever's happening here to stop. 
jerry: no, i-i understand. uh, maybe we overreacted. but he has to keep going to school. 
rick: okay, jerry. you drive a hard bargain, but what am i supposed to do? say no? you-you really wear the pants around here. i just want you to know, between us, from now on, it's gonna be clear communication. (summer butts in, crying over the death of frank) 
summer: (crying) frank palicky was frozen to death today! 
rick: no idea what you're talking about. (summer leaves, crying) 
jerry: okay. well, uh, morty, it's your bedtime in an hour. don't stay up all night again. this is good, though. this can work. i think we can be a family and now, beth, if you'll have me, i would love to have you. 
beth: you know what? okay. (she and jerry leave) 
morty: holy cow, rick. i didn't know hanging out with you was making me smarter. 
rick: full disclosure, morty it's not. temporary superintelligence is just a side effect of the mega seeds dissolving in your rectal cavity. 
morty: aw, man. 
rick: yeah, and once those seeds wear off, you're gonna lose most of your motor skills, and you're also gonna lose a significant amount of brain functionality for 72 hours, morty. 
starting right about now.  morty: ohh, man. (losing consciousness) oh, geez! ohh. (drops to the ground and starts moaning as he has a seizure) 
rick: i'm sorry, morty. it's a bummer. in reality, you're as dumb as they come and i needed those seeds real bad, and i had to give them up just to get your parents off my back, so now we're gonna have to go get more adventures. (excitedly looks down upon him, telling him about their future adventures) and then we're gonna go on even more adventures after that, morty and you're gonna keep your mouth shut about it, morty, because the world is full of idiots that don't understand what's important, and they'll tear us apart, morty but if you stick with me, i'm gonna accomplish great things, morty, and you're gonna be part of them, and together, we're gonna run around, morty. we're gonna do all kinds of wonderful things, morty. just you and me, morty. the outside world is our enemy, morty. we're the only friends we've got, morty. it's just rick and morty. rick and morty and their adventures, morty. rick and morty forever and forever. morty's things. me and rick and morty running around, and rick and morty time. all day long, forever. all a hundred days. rick and morty forever 100 times. over and over, rickandmortyadventures. com. all 100 years. every minute, rickandmorty. com. 
[cut to black] 
[the smith family is seen sitting around the table eating breakfast. the viewer at this point doesn't know that this scene is set in a dimension that is not dimension c-137 with a different smith family, but this will be apparent at the end of the scene.] 
beth: so dad, guess what tomorrow is... 
rick: martin luther king jr.'s birthday. 
beth: no... well, it might be... 
rick: it is. 
beth: fine, but also, tomorrow is your one year anniversary back in our lives. i'm gonna make you flying saucer-shaped pancakes. 
rick: oh, there's no need to do that, beth. regular pancakes are fine. 
(a portal appears on their wall and evil rick and evil morty emerge from it carrying a gun and a tranquilizer respectively. evil rick shoots rick in the head and kills him. evil morty shoots morty in the shoulder with his tranquilizer and he passes out. evil morty then drags morty across the breakfast table and he and evil rick drag morty through the portal, and the portal disappears. the family screams in horror the entire time.) 
[opening sequence plays] 
(the smith family is seen sitting around the table eating breakfast. this scene takes place in dimension c-137) 
beth: happy anniversary, dad! 
rick: oh, i get it. regular pancakes are already shaped like flying saucers.[takes bite] mmm, i should be making you breakfast for putting up with me. 
jerry: should be making us a whole restaurant. 
beth: nonsense, we couldn t be happier to have you around. i just wish i got to see more of you. 
(three armed ricks come into the room through a portal) 
rick 1: rick sanchez of earth dimension c-137. you are under arrest for crimes against alternate ricks by the authority of the transdimensional council of ricks. 
jerry: hey! what the heck? 
rick 1: neutralise the jerry. 
jerry: wait, no! 
(rick 2 shoots at jerry, freezing him) 
summer: dad! 
beth: dad! 
morty: rick! 
rick c-137: everybody relax. if i know these a-holes, and i am these a-holes, they just wanna haul me to their stupid clubhouse and waste my time with a bunch of questions. let s get it over with. 
rick 1: bring his mo-[belches]-orty. 
morty: oh, man. 
rick c-137: leave my[belches] morty out of this! 
rick 1: you lost the right to have a say in these things when you refused to join[belches] the council. 
beth: wait, wh-wh-wh-what about jerry? 
rick c-137: will you at least unfreeze my daughter s idiot? 
(rick 1 unfreezes jerry. rick 2 and rick 3 take rick through the portal and all exit) 
jerry:-give you anything! i have a rare antique coin collection, just don t hurt me![pauses] okay, maybe not antique, but it was a limited minting. they have little r2d2s instead of george washingtons. 
beth: our son s been abducted! 
jerry: you hate me for buying those coins! 
[transition to ext citadel of ricks] 
[transition to int citadel of ricks. the three armed ricks and c-137 rick and morty enter through a portal] 
morty c-137: geez, rick! wh-what is this place? 
rick c-137: the citadel of ricks. it s the secret headquarters for the council of ricks. 
morty c-137: council of ricks? 
rick c-137: as you know, morty, i ve got a lotta enemies in the universe that consider my genius a threat. galactic terrorists, a few sub-galactic dictators, most of the entire intergalactic government wh-wherever you find people with heads up their asses someone wants a piece of your grandpa. and a lot of versions of me on different timelines had the same problem. so a few thousand versions of me had the ingenious idea of banding together like a herd of cattle or a school of fish or those people who answer questions on yahoo answers. 
morty c-137: hey, what do you know? it s a cowboy version of me! 
rick c-137: geez, you re easy to impress. yeah, most timelines have a rick and most ricks have a morty. this place is a real who s-who of who s you and me. 
rick salesman 1: turn your boring old morty into a hot fashion statement, with some morty dazzlers! 
rick salesman 2: hey, check this out! 
(rick salesman 2 holds up a morty doll and presses a button in the middle) 
morty doll: show me the morty! 
rick c-137: dumb. 
rick salseman 3: scuse me, sir, is your morty insured? you know, every year hundreds of mortys are injured in- 
rick c-137: back off! not my cup of tea, this place. 
[transition to hallway leading to the council] 
rick c-137: i say the point of being a rick is being a rick. 
rick 1: save your anti-rick speech for the council of ricks, terror-rick! 
rick c-137: hey, save your rick rules for the[belches] sheep-ricks, rick-pig! 
rick 1: fuck me, pal. 
rick c-137: fuck you? no no no no no, fuck me! 
(they reach the end of the hallway and the door opens automatically, revealing the council of ricks) 
rick council 1: bring up the holograms! 
(a screen depicting several dead ricks appears) 
rick council 1: twenty-seven ricks brutally murdered in their own timelines. an unprecedented rick-icidal epidemic. what say you, earth rick c-137? 
rick c-137: you think i did this? why am i the first rick you pull in every time a rick stubs his toe? 
rick council 1: you[belches] have a history of non-cooperation with the council. 
rick c-137: yeah, so does the scientist formerly known as rick! wh-wh-wh-why isn t he here in handcuffs? 
rick council 1: because he s dead too! 
rick crowd: no! 
rick council 1: who else would you have us question? you fit the profile. of all the ricks in the central finite curve, you re the malcontent. the rogue. 
rick c-137: i m the rick. and so were the rest of you before you formed this stupid alliance. you wanted to be safe from the government so you became a stupid government. that makes every rick here less rick than me. 
rick crowd: (can you believe this guy? this guy needs to get out of here, etc. ad lib) 
rick c-137: yeah, murmur it up, d-bags. now if you ll excuse me, i ve got pancakes back home with syrup on top of them. they re about to hit that critical point of syrup absorption that turns the cakes into a gross paste. and i hate to get all andy rooney about it, but i think we all like fluffy discs of cake with syrup on top! and i think we also like to be accused of crimes when there s evidence! so as they say in canada, peace oot! 
rick council 1: evidence? good idea. scan his portal gun! 
(rick 1 reaches into c-137’s lab coat and retrieves his portal gun) 
rick c-137: oh, come on. don t look at another man s portal gun history. we-we all go to weird places. 
rick council 1: yes, but it appears you alone have been going to the exact timelines and locations in which the murders occured! 
(a diagram appears on the screen, displaying c-137’s portal gun history. entries for certain dimensions flash green before it finally settles on a select few which flash red) 
rick c-137: what? that s rick-diculous. i m obviously being set up! 
rick council 1: earth rick c-137! the council of ricks sentences you to the machine of unspeakable doom, which swaps your conscious and unconscious minds, rendering your fantasies pointless while everything you know becomes impossible to grasp. also every ten seconds it stabs your balls. 
rick c-137: i ve heard enough. 
(c-137 elbows rick 1 and tackles him into rick 2, taking his gun and shooting through his own and then morty’s handcuffs. the two run away) 
rick c-137: run, morty! 
(a morty from the crowd starts to run too) 
crowd rick: uh uh, not you! 
[transition to back to corridor. rick and morty (c-137) are running, and are being chased by ricks] 
morty c-137: aaaaah! 
(rick shoots into the side walls with his portal gun. as the chasing ricks pass, several of them get set on fire, attacked by insects, dragged into the portals by tentacles or hit by falling pumpkins) 
armed rick 1: nooo! 
armed rick 2: arrrrgh! ahhhh! 
armed rick 3: aaaah! 
armed ricks 4 and 5: oof! 
(the two reach the end of the corridor, which cuts off to a moveable ramp which is currently down and is blocked by a railing. they leap over. as they fall, rick c-137 shoots a portal beneath them which they then fall through) 
[transition to buttworld. rick and morty c-137 fall through a portal onto a large butt mountain. they bounce off and continue running] 
morty c-137: oh! oooh! 
(rick c-137 shoots a portal in between two buttcheeks, which they run through, with the other ricks in hot pursuit) 
[transition to pizza dimension. a pizza sits on a couch dialing on a phone, while another is lying down on another couch) 
pizza 1: yeah, i d like to order one large person with extra people please. 
pizza 2: white people. no no no no no, black people. and hispanic on half. 
(c-137 rick and morty run out of a portal and shoot another portal onto the opposite wall, then run through. the ricks and mortys chasing them follow) 
[trans greasy grandma world]
(the dimension is full of greasy grandmas a banner says welcome to greasy grandma world population) 
(c-137 rick and morty run through, avoiding the grandmas as much as possible. they shoot another portal in the wall and run through. the ricks and mortys chasing them follow) 
[transition to phone dimension. a phone sits on a pizza dialing on a person, while another is lying down on another pizza] 
phone 1: yes, i d like to order one large sofa chair with extra chair please. 
phone 2: high chair. no no no no no, recliner! and wheelchair on half. 
(c-137 rick and morty run out of a portal and shoot another portal onto the opposite wall, then run through. the ricks and mortys chasing them follow) 
[transition to doopidoo dimension. several doopidoo creatures stand around repeating the phrase “doopidoo” over and over] 
(rick c-137 shoots several portals into the wall, and enters the last one. the ricks and mortys chasing them enter the dimension but don’t know which portal to go into) 
armed rick 6: they could have gone into any one of these. 
armed ricks: (ugh, son of a-, aw geez, aw man, we lost him, etc. ad lib) 
[transition to chair dimension. a sofa sits on a person dialing on a pizza, while another is lying down on another person) 
sofa 1: yeah, i d like to order one large phone with extra phones please. 
sofa 2: cellphone. no no no no no, rotary! and payphone on half. 
(c-137 rick and morty run out of a portal) 
rick: that ll keep em[belches] busy for a while. 
morty: those guys were wrong, right? you don t-you wouldn t kill yourself y-yourselves? 
rick: course not, morty! how could that profit me? someone out there is killing ricks, and the council ain t gonna stop thinking it s me until we clear our names. 
(the two pass a homeless sofa, who’s initially drinking but stares at them as they pass and dumps out his bottle) 
rick: by finding the real rick killer. 
morty: i m scared, rick! maybe we should go home and stockpile weapons like that show doomsday preppers. 
rick: not really my style, morty. besides, your home is most likely swarming with ricks right now. 
[transition to smith living room. jerry’s reading a newspaper, summer’s on her phone, and a bunch of ricks and mortys are searching the place] 
rick 1: alright, listen, jerry. if rick calls, this device is going to trace his location. you just gotta keep em on the phone for thirty seconds or longer. 
beth: who wants lemonade? 
rick 1: oh yeah! mmm! oh, delicious! 
rick 2: beth,[belches] you re a treasure. 
rick 3: i have a beth just like you in my[belches] reality, except you know what? she s not as brilliant or[belches] attractive! 
beth: aww, thank[belches] you! 
all ricks: ohohoho! she did it! she did it! 
(phone rings. rick 4 makes a signal to say they’re tracing the signal. jerry picks it up) 
jerry: uh, hello? 
rick phone: hey jerry, it s rick. 
jerry: rick! heyy. haha, what s-what s up? 
rick phone: so listen, the heat s on and[belches] there s nowhere left to turn so morty and i are just going to fly my spaceship into a black hole. 
jerry: what? 
rick phone: is that cool with you, dog? 
jerry: rick, no! mortyyyy! 
rick 4: i got it! the call s coming from inside the house! 
all ricks: [laughing] (look at his face! i can t believe our daughter married you, too easy, etc. ad lib) 
[transition to chair dimension. rick and morty are in a restaurant run by chairs] 
rick: the ricks are probably gonna waste some time messing with jerry. they won t be able to help themselves. but as soon as they get bored they ll be on to us. 
chair waiter: phones á la clams, and phonesgetti with phoneballs. anything else? 
rick: yeah, more phonesticks please. 
phone waiter: right away, sir. 
morty: you know rick, when i first saw all those ricks and mortys, i thought gee, that kinda devalues our bond. but then i realised that just means that our relationship must be pretty special to span over all those different timelines. 
rick: yeah, it s gotta be that way. you re a camouflage. 
morty: camouflage? wh-wh-what are you talking about, rick? 
rick: ricks have a very distinct and traceable brainwave due to our genius. the best way to hide from an enemy s radar is to stand near someone with complementary brainwaves that make ours invisible. see, wh-wh-when a rick is with a morty, the genius waves get cancelled out by the uh,[clears throat] morty waves. 
morty: um because our personalities are so different? 
rick: oh, shit dog! my portal gun was hacked remotely morty, obviously by the real killer to frame me. but i was able to trace the signal. come on, let s go! 
(the two stand up. as they’re about to leave, two ricks and a morty enter the restaurant and address the waiter) 
rick c-137: uh-oh! 
rick 1: scuse me, we ve tracked a pair of dangerous criminals to this exact location. they look exactly like us, so in order to avoid confusion i m going to mark us each with a red x right now. that way if someone has a gun and we both tell you to shoot the other one because they re the evil one, you ll know who s lying. 
rick 2: hey, check it out! 
(two person-chairs that look like rick and morty from behind are beside a table. when the two ricks rush over to turn them around, it’s revealed that they’re not) 
rick 1: dammit! 
(they look out the window, to see c-137 flipping them off from in a police hovercraft. they rush outside, and the waiter follows) 
chair waiter: hey, you didn t pay your bill! 
rick 1: the red x! red x! 
[transition to green planet. rick and morty are flying in the police hovercraft, searching] 
rick: hey, it s a good thing that space outlet had labcoats and your favourite kind of shirt in stock, huh morty? 
morty: yeah, rick. i-i heard you the first time. you don t have to keep saying it over and over and over. 
rick: man, this place is wayyy off the grid. this guy does not wanna be found. 
morty: well, if he s a rick, doesn t he just have to stand by a morty to hide? i mean, isn t that what mortys are? human cloaking devices? 
rick: morty, you re making a bigger deal out of this than it is. 
(in the distance a dome comes into view. faint yelling can be heard) 
morty: oh my god, rick, look! there s a bunch of people strapped all over that building! 
rick: not people, morty. mortys. 
(as they get closer, it’s revealed that the dome is covered top to bottom in naked mortys, who are strapped to the surface and are being tortured with contraptions that stab their sides constantly. constant morty yelling can be heard) 
morty c-137: oh my god wh-why would somebody do this? it s horrible! 
rick: well, one morty s enough to hide from the bureaucrats. but you g-you get a whole matrix of mortys and put em in agonising pain. that creates a pattern that can hide even from other ricks, motherfucker. i fiddled with a[belches] concept like this once. 
(they land. morty stares at rick) 
rick: on paper, morty, on paper! i wouldn t do this, it s barbaric overkill. i mean, you could accomplish the same result with like five mortys and a jumper cable.[pauses as morty glares at him] which i also wouldn t do! i m just saying, it s bad craftsmanship. 
[transition to smith living room. ricks are playing cards while mortys watch. jerry’s on his laptop] 
beth: coffee time! 
all ricks: (yeah! that s what i like to hear! etc. ad lib) 
(the ricks run into the kitchen, and the mortys take the place of the ricks on the cards table. doofus rick enters the house) 
jerry: ugh. 
doofus rick: hi jerry! 
jerry: leave me alone, i m working! 
doofus rick: oh, you are? wh-wh-what do you do? 
jerry: ugh. i m-i m in between advertising jobs. 
doofus rick: advertising? wow! so, people need help figuring out what to buy and then y-you help them? 
jerry: w-well, it s a little more complicated than that 
doofus rick: well, i mean, you do it, and you seem like a guy that really has it all together! 
jerry:[looks around for hiding ricks] dude, are you wh-you re being a dick, right? 
doofus rick: oh gosh, wh-i hope not! i-i-i-i wouldn t want to offend you in any way! 
jerry: you re really a rick? 
doofus rick: ohoho! y-of course i am! just as much as my morty s a morty! 
(doofus rick’s morty waves to doofus rick from the poker table) 
jerry: hey, he looks a lot like eric stoltz from the movie mask. you know, the one with cher in it? 
doofus rick: that s right, jerry! he-he s from a reality where everyone is eric stoltz mask people! he s eric stoltz mask morty! they assigned him to me because i never had any kids of my own. but if i did, boy, i d love em if they were as smart and as successful as you are, jerry. 
(ricks return with coffee) 
rick 1: hey, get a load of this! jerry s hanging out with doofus rick. 
rick 2: haha, this is perfect. 
doofus rick: i m not doofus rick! i m rick j-19-zeta-7! 
rick 1: oh, is that the timeline where everybody eats poop? jerry, you know this guy eats poop, right? 
doofus rick: hey! i don t eat poop! y-you guys are always so mean to me! 
rick 1 and 2:[laughing] 
doofus rick: i guess it s only fair to tell you now, jerry i m the worst rick of them all. 
jerry: according to who? other versions of you? if i ve learned one thing, it s that before you get anywhere in life, you gotta stop listening to yourself. 
doofus rick: wow, you really are wise, jerry. i-i guess that s why you work in advertising! 
jerry: the fact that you feel that way makes you the best rick of them all. 
[transition to int dome. rick and morty are exploring corridors] 
morty: you don t care about me at all! i m no different than that jacket you ve got on! y-y-or-or your stupid portal gun! i m just a tool! i-i m just an object! 
rick: hey, it s your choice to take it personally, morty. now for the love of god, be quiet! the point of this is to get the drop on the guy! 
morty: you know what rick, i ll tell you something! i m more than a human shield! 
rick: yeah, that s right! you are! you re a perfect impenetrable sheet of human armour, morty! because you re as dumb as i am smart! which is why when i say shut up it s really good advice. 
(morty tears up. a bunch of lobster-like aliens come out of the nearby corridors and surround them) 
rick: great, nice work, morty. 
(rick starts attacking and kicking the aliens. he kills the first wave, but more surround them quickly) 
rick: urrgh. 
(evil rick and evil morty emerge. evil rick is slow clapping) 
evil rick: ooh, look at you, c-137! you re-aren t you a tough customer? 
rick: the slow clap? really? kinda played out, dude. 
evil rick: not in this dimension it isn t. in fact, hah, i invented it and nobody else has ever even done it here before. 
rick: well lah-dee-dah.[slow claps] 
evil rick: hey, that s mine! 
[transition to rick and morty have been apprehended and are being carried down the corridor by lobster aliens] 
rick: i don t like the look of that rick, morty. we gotta escape. 
morty: i m not gonna help you, rick. y-you re a monster. 
rick: don t be rickdiculous, morty. 
morty: w-will you stop saying that? it s stupid. 
evil rick: take his morty away. 
evil morty: come with me. 
morty: yeah, gladly. geez man, ricks huh? 
(the two leave to the left. the view changes to another, smaller corridor, which the two walk down) 
morty: hey man, you seem to know how this place works. is there any way we can shut down that grid and rescue all those mortys out there? 
evil morty: it would be pointless. mortys have no chance of defeating a rick. 
(he opens a door) 
evil morty: in here. 
(as morty walks in, he sees it’s filled with a crowd of scared, shivering mortys. as he tries to leave, evil morty closes the door behind him, locking him in) 
[trans evil rick's lab]
(rick is tied to an examination table an array of computers and other devices are visible. many of the mortys from the outside of the dome are visible)
evil rick: ahh, isn t it beautiful? 
rick: yeah, yeah, looks like payday at neverland ranch in here. zing! 
lobster alien: hehehehehehehehehe. 
rick: that guy got it. 
evil rick: ah-ah rick, quiet. you re missing my symphony. 
(evil rick presses a button, allowing the sounds of the mortys in pain to come through. he conducts it for a bit) 
rick: hey, i ll take it over mumford and sons. zip! 
lobster alien: hehehehehehehehehe. 
rick: this guy is on it! 
evil rick: he s not laughing at your dumb jokes, rick. that s just a random noise it makes every ten seconds. 
lobster alien: hehehehehehehehehe. 
rick: awww. 
evil rick: see, rick, you re not as clever as you think you are. i wanted you to find me. we re not so[belch] different, you and i. 
(evil rick activates a display showing all the ricks from different timelines) 
rick: yeah, duh! 
evil rick: see this right here, rick? i crunched the numbers, i created a spectrum of all the ricks. i listed em out from most evil to least evil. here s where i am. and look at right here s where you are, rick. this guy right here? super weird. 
rick: i get it. so you want me to team up with you to take down the council of ricks, right? is that where you re going with this? cause that s where i d be going. 
evil rick: please. i think i m doing pretty good on my own. i m simply going to download the contents of your brain, and then kill you. 
[transition to rick’s garage. doofus rick is mixing chemicals and jerry is watching] 
doofus rick: okay, if we add a little more titanium nitrate, and just a tad of chlorified tartrate ovenless brownies! 
(jerry takes a brownie, eats it and smiles) 
jerry: it s incredible what a gifted mind can accomplish when priorities are in order! 
doofus rick: well, come on, i can t take all the credit, jerry. it was your idea. c mere jerry! 
(both hug and laugh) 
jerry: hey, uh. c mere, uh. i-i wanna show you something. 
(they exit the garage and jerry pulls out a box, then opens it to reveal coins with r2d2s on them) 
jerry: okay, look. everybody makes fun of me for getting these, but you re a genius scientist, what do you think? there s little r2d2s where the george washingtons should be! 
doofus rick: you know jerry, i m not gonna tell you that these will increase in value, or even hold their current value. the truth is you bought em cause you like em. they have value to you. that s what matters. 
jerry: (tearing up) how long are you staying? 
doofus rick: until we find your rick. 
jerry: (hugging doofus rick) i found mine. i found mine. 
[transition to morty prison. c-137 morty is bashing at the door. he is approached by a group of mortys wearing robes and facepaint] 
morty c-137: help! 
religious morty: there is no escape, my son. we will find our peace in the next world. 
(religious morty offers c-137 a pamphlet titled “the good morty”) 
morty c-137: so what? y-y-y-y-you re just going to give up? 
religious morty: we re giving in to the power of the one true morty. one day he will return! 
all religious mortys: praise the one true morty! 
(morty opens “the good morty” to the first page, then scoffs and throws it away) 
morty c-137: alright mortys, listen up! my name is morty smith, from earth dimension c-137! i know you re scared, because i m scared, but that s no reason to accept our fate. we re mortys! we re not defined by our relationships to rick! our destiny is our own! 
morty 1: this sounds like something the one true morty might say. i m sick of being a human shield! i-i-i-i wanna be a gardener! 
morty 2: i wanna write really crazy, intense action novels! 
hammer morty: i m more than just a hammer! 
religious morty: he is the one true morty! the one true morty! 
all mortys: hooray! 
(the door opens, and a lobster alien walks in) 
lobster alien: hey, keep it down! 
all mortys: raaaaugh! 
(the mortys rush the door, breaking free and charging down the corridor) 
[transition to evil rick’s lab. evil rick is going through rick’s memories on a screen] 
evil rick: you ve lived quite a life, rick. it s a real shame you re not gonna be around to see it through. 
(the memories change theme to feature morty in each one. rick tears up) 
evil rick: you re crying? over a morty? 
rick: no, i m just allergic to dipshits. 
evil rick: ugh, pathetic. we both know that if there s any truth in the universe, it s that ricks don t care about mortys. 
(the mortys break through the door and rush at evil rick, killing the lobster aliens, surrounding him and tearing into him) 
evil rick: do your worst, you little bastards! kill me! do it! do it! 
(evil rick dies. morty c-137 appears and approaches rick) 
rick: morty! get me out of this! come on! 
morty c-137: you re lucky i m not a rick. 
(morty c-137 unbuckles rick from the examination table) 
rick: point taken, but this is[belches] no time for arcs. 
(he presses a button, disengaging the morty shield. mortys are released and pour down off the dome. rick grabs a phone and rings home) 
rick 1: yeah, hello? 
rick c-137: hey, what do me and o. j. not have in common? 
rick 1: huh? wh-who is this? 
rick c-137: i found the real killer, biitch! get over here! 
[transition to jerry and doofus rick are playing with legos. rick 1 opens the door] 
rick 1: yo ding-dong! we re done here. time to go. 
doofus rick: well jerry, i[belches] guess this means goodbye. 
jerry: w-w-well, does it have to? heh, you, you look just like rick. we could maybe you know get rid of him? i m not saying kill him, necessarily, i-i m also not saying necessarily not kill him, but- 
doofus rick: jerry. w-we both know it wouldn t work. it s time to go back to our lives. i love you, jerry. i love ya. 
(doofus rick hugs jerry and leaves. jerry makes as if to follow him, then stops and punches a wall. the lego castle they built falls apart) 
[transition to evil rick’s lab. the mortys are still fighting. ricks from the citadel move in and stop each morty, pulling them off evil rick’s corpse and bringing them back to the citadel] 
morty c-137: wh-wh-what s gonna happen to all these mortys? 
council rick 1: they ll go back to their families, attend school regularly, play video games, date girls poor little rickless bastards. 
[transition to citadel of ricks. the council has gathered around c-137 rick and morty] 
council rick 1: earth rick c-137, the council apologises for its false accusation. and in the way of reparations for our terrible mistake, we would like to compensate you with this voucher for a free replacement morty, in the event that[belches] your current[belches] morty should- 
rick: uh, guys? not a good time. come on, morty, let s hit it. 
(before they leave, rick takes the voucher anyway) 
[transition to citadel outside. rick and morty are walking away from the council] 
morty: is it time for arcs yet, rick? i did a pretty great job back there for a human cloaking device. saved your ass. 
rick: alright, morty, don t break an arm jerking yourself off. 
morty: man, i can t believe you, rick! that right there! tha-that was a great opportunity to show a little humanity. you know? to connect with me a little? 
rick: hey morty, you want connection? go be part of some stupid club like all those dumb ricks. you know, maybe i don t connect because i m the rickest rick there is. and you know, it would[belch] go without saying that the rickest rick would have the mortyest morty. 
morty: it would go without saying, huh? 
rick: yeah, it would. did you hear me say it? 
morty: nah (to himself) the mortyest morty 
rick: just don t get too big for your loafers, buster brown. a cocky morty could lead to some big problems. could be a real bad thing for everybody. 
morty: oh yeah, how s that? 
rick: i-i-i ll explain when you re older. 
[transition to evil rick’s lab. evil rick is lying in a pool of blood being inspected by ricks. for the damaged coda by blonde redhead starts playing in the background] 
rick 1: what a mess 
rick 2: pride cometh before the fall. i guess he got what he deserved. 
rick 1: what is that? 
(rick 1 turns evil rick’s head over to reveal wires) 
rick 2: hand me the laser defibrillator. 
doofus rick: hey guys! uh, c-can i help? 
rick 2: no! go clean the toilets! maybe you ll make friends with some turds! 
rick 1: you make us ashamed to be ourselves! 
(rick 2 removes the top of evil rick’s head to reveal electronics woven into his brain. they pull out a chip) 
rick 1: my god! i ve seen this technology before! this rick was being controlled remotely, puppeteered by somebody else. this is the receiver! 
rick 2: yeah, but where s the transmitter? 
[transition to citadel of ricks. mortys are being loaded into spaceships to be delivered to their respective dimensions] 
(evil morty follows them, and removes his eyepatch, revealing the transmitter. he crushes it underfoot and hides the wires, then follows the rest of the mortys) 
[credits play] 
[after credits scene jerry is sitting in rick’s bedroom, trying not to cry. rick enters] 
rick: wubbalubbadubdub! oh. hey jerry. wh-wh-what are you doing in my room, buddy? 
jerry: nothing! i was just, um, checking the smoke detectors. 
rick: alright. okay, get out. 
(jerry leaves and goes down to the dining room. he looks outside the window and sees doofus rick standing in the rain and smiles. rick appears beside jerry) 
rick: what s that dipshit doing out there? are you friends with him? you know he eats his own shit, right? oh my god, this is rich! i ve got like[belches] ten ricks to call right now! 
[end] 
[open ext. smith residence] 
[transition to int. rick’s garage] 
(rick prepares a harpoon gun and morty is dressed in full scuba gear.) 
rick: alright morty, you ready for our adventure to the lost city of atlantis? 
morty: gives a thumbs-up ready as i ll ever be, rick! 
(a portal opens behind them. rick and morty k-22 enter.) 
rick: oh, for fuck s sake. 
rick k-22: holding clipboard hello, i m rick k-22. this is my morty. (morty k-22 waves.) we re going from reality to reality asking ricks to contribute to the citadel of ricks redevelopment fund. 
rick: what are you, stupid? we re done with the citadel of ricks. i was burp never on board with it in the first place, that s why i murdered everyone in charge and left it to rot. 
rick k-22: examines clipboard ohhh. that was you. passes clipboard to his morty 
morty: they tried to murder him first. 
morty k-22: oh geez. well, you ll be happy to know that the council s gone now. 
morty: yeah, he knows. he murdered them. 
rick k-22: you wanna rein in your morty? 
rick: glaring every day. 
morty k-22: reading from script the citadel of ricks redevelopment fund donates-- 
rick k-22: interrupts morty, he s not gonna belch donate. you re pitching the policeman s ball to a black teenager here. pulls out his portal gun and shoots a new portal let s go. 
(morty k-22 waves and walks through the portal.) 
rick: you don t have to be a dick. 
rick k-22: i think you know that s not true. 
(rick k-22 also exits through the portal, which disappears.) 
morty: geez. i didn t know there were still ricks and mortys living on the citadel. i wonder what their day-to-day lives are like. 
rick: straps harpoon gun to his back well you can keep wondering that while we go on our fun, fresh, self-contained adventure to atlantis. shoots a portal anyone continuing to explore the citadel is either stupid or one of the unfortunate millions held hostage by their terrible ideas. 
(rick exits through the portal.) 
morty: man. glad i m not one of them! 
(morty fixes his scuba gear and runs through the portal after rick.) 
[transition to ext. citadel of ricks] 
(“in the city” by joe walsh plays) 
title: rick and morty tales from the citadel] 
[transition to int. citadel] 
(we’re shown a montage. the citadel, still undergoing construction after the damages from the events of “the rickshank rickdemption”, is full of damaged buildings and roadways. cars, both flying and standard, are traveling.) 
(a large crowd of ricks with mortys interspersed throughout walks down a street.) 
(ricks work in a construction crew, rebuilding damaged structures.) 
(campaign manager morty pays for coffee and exits cafe sanchez. he tries to hail a cab, which passes him up and picks up a rick in a business suit.) 
[int. shooting range] 
(at the police academy, trainee ricks practice shooting. cop rick shoots synthetic gromflomites. he and his instructor salute one another upon his success.) 
[int. morty academy] 
(a line of mortys grab their books and close their lockers, all of which feature pictures of jessica while teacher rick looks on.) 
[int. train] 
(many ricks are commuting to work. they all pull out flasks and take a drink at the same time. rick j-22 looks out the window and sees a wealthy rick in a flying car, enjoying sardines and champaign. he sighs.) 
(music fades out) 
[transition to citadel morning news] 
rick voiceover: citadel morning news news about the citadel in the morning. pretty self explanatory. 
[int. news room] 
(rick 0716 and rick 0716-b anchor at the desk.) 
rick d716-b: good morning. i m rick d716-b. 
rick d716: and i m rick d7 
rick d716-b: must be nice. 
rick d716: coming up! gravity outages in east sanchez heights! 
rick d716-b: and, is your uranium-powered cellular matrix making you sick? the answer may not surprise you. it s yes, it s uranium. 
rick d716: those stories and more after this break. 
[commercial for simple rick’s] 
(a young rick works in his garage as pleasant music plays.) 
narrator: sixteen iterations off the central finite curve, there s a rick that works more with wood than polarity plating. 
(simple rick finishes a present for his beth and wraps it.) 
narrator: his name is simple rick, but he s no dummy. 
(view from a handheld video camera. simple rick films beth blowing out candles on her birthday cake.) 
narrator: he realized long ago that the greatest thing he d ever create was his daughter. 
young beth: i love daddy! 
(simple rick smiles and cries happily.) 
narrator: we captured that moment and run it on a loop through simple rick s mind. 
(simple rick, aged up, sits in his seat at the wafer factory, the above scene playing on a helmet in a loop. he’s attached to machinery that collects happy secretions from his brain.) 
narrator: and the chemical that makes his brain secrete goes into every simple rick s simple wafer cookie. (said wafer is displayed on-screen.) come home to the impossible flavor of your own completion. come home to simple rick s. 
[transition to news room] 
(the broadcast resumes.) 
rick d716: just one day remains before our newly democratic citadel elects its first president. it s anyone s race among the rick candidates. 
(rick candidates are displayed on screen. they include retired general rick, private sector rick, juggling rick, rick guilt rick, and reverse rick outrage.) 
rick d716-b: but a certain other candidate should be getting at least one vote for most adorable. 
(candidate morty visits hospitalized mortys for photo ops.) 
rick d716 voiceover: that s right, the morty party candidate s still in the race, and you just gotta love him for that. 
(candidate morty stands outside a van, waving to press.) 
rick d716 voiceover: here you see him in his little morty suit, waving. isn t that adorable? little jackass. 
(candidate morty gives a speech to a crowd of mortys in front of a commemorative morty statue.) 
rick d716-b voiceover: uh, yeah, i think we actually have the audio for his speech here. aw geez, aw man, i m gonna lose the election and stuff. 
(cuts back to the newsroom. both ricks are laughing.) 
[int. morty campaign headquarters] 
(the morty campaign is watching the news report. campaign manager morty turns off the tv.) 
campaign manager morty: we had a good run, sir, but i think it s time to pull out of the race. 
candidate morty: i feel pretty confident about tonight s debate. 
campaign manager morty: you shouldn t, sir. you should be terrified. 
candidate morty: maybe you should find a little faith, young man. 
(candidate morty walks away and campaign manager morty calls after him.) 
campaign manager morty: you don t pay me to have faith! and we re the same age! 
[transition to morty pride parade] 
(a parade of mortys marches down the street. many mortys hold signs. there are a few ricks among the spectators. cop rick watches from outside cafe sanchez, drinking a coffee. a police cruiser pulls up, nearly hitting two mortys who run out of the way just in time. it stops in front of cop rick and the passenger window rolls down, revealing cop morty behind the wheel.) 
cop rick: oh! s-sorry, i was expecting-- 
cop morty: a rick partner? lesson 1, rookie expect the unexpected. now get in. 
(cop rick climbs into the passenger seat. cop morty starts the cruiser and drives slowly as they approach a cluster of mortys. one morty jumps against the hood of the car.) 
morty: mortys are human! 
cop morty: get the fuck off the car you rickless fuckin animal! 
(he pulls a lever and the car sends a taser shock through morty, who falls aside. the mortys disperse and cop morty resumes driving.) 
cop morty: the election s got these yellow shirts more riled up than a picture day jessica. 
cop rick: that s pretty harsh, sir. 
cop morty: so report me. nobody gives a fuck. 
cop rick: look, i m just saying. makes me a little sad to hear a morty cop calling mortys animals . 
cop morty: well, it makes me sad to see another rick cop buying into his sensitivity training. 
cop rick: well, i m glad to know there s more like me. 
cop morty: oh, there was one. why do you think that seat was empty? 
(a holographic rick appears on the dashboard.) 
dispatch: robbery at fifth and burp avenue. 
(dispatch vanishes.) 
cop rick: fifth and burp ? that s mortytown. 
cop morty: (to dispatch) unit 7 responding. 
(they drive away. as they do, cop morty tasers an innocent bystander morty with the cruiser.) 
[transition to ext. morty academy] 
teacher rick: good idea, rick. 
students: good idea, rick. 
[int. classroom] 
teacher rick: this is a great adventure. 
students: this is a great adventure. 
teacher rick: i love being your new morty. 
students: i love being your new mor... 
slick: (substituting for the word morty) farty! 
(slick and the other students laugh. teacher rick approaches his desk.) 
teacher rick: very amusing, mr. smith. almost as amusing as when your first rick was decapitated on zorpathion 9. (slick s smug face becomes downcast.) or was that your third rick? how many ricks have you had? 
slick: five 
teacher rick: i see. so you are top of the class in something. (all the mortys besides slick laugh.) tomorrow you will be transferred to your new ricks. hopefully they will be your last. yes, slow ri--tall morty? 
tall morty: di-did i gragitate this time yet? 
teacher rick: anything s possible, tall morty. ugh 
(the other mortys laugh again. the bell rings, and everyone but slick, lizard morty, fat morty, and glasses morty leaves the classroom.) 
lizard morty: guess we won t be seein each other after this, huh? 
slick: i say we make our last day count. i say we go to the wishing portal. 
glasses morty: that s a myth. 
fat morty: it s not a myth! mmmy first rick s fourth morty knew a rick whose morty went there. 
lizard morty: if we re not here for graduation, our butts are gonna end up in mortytown. 
slick: i thought your last rick fused you with a lizard, not a chicken. 
lizard morty: okay, fine. i m in. 
glasses morty: me too. 
(slick, glasses, and fat morty put their hands together. lizard morty sticks his tongue on top.) 
fat morty: what the hell? 
lizard morty: retracts tongue i-i thought i saw a fly. 
[transition to simple rick’s wafer cookie factory] 
(various factory drone ricks stand in position on an assembly line, processing the wafer cookies. rick j-22’s job is to stamp each wafer with the simple rick’s logo. suddenly an alarm blares, and the workers all look up to where supervisor rick is standing.) 
supervisor rick: whistles listen up, fucknuts! i ve been your supervisor for five years but all shitty things must come to an end, and i have been promoted to regional manager. (factory ricks cheer unenthusiastically.) yeah, i feel the same way. may we never meet again. of course that makes the position of supervisor available. (rick j-22 looks hopeful.) so as of next week, the ass you ll be kissing will be that of (rick j-22 smiles) k-83, (he frowns again) affectionately known as cool rick. 
(cool rick walks up and flips the workers off.) 
cool rick: i know i m new to the citadel and some of you might not think i ve put in my time, but what can i say? i m cool rick! finger guns yo, ha-ha-ha, check me out! 
supervisor rick: alright, knuckle- burp -heads, any questions? (rick j-22 raises his hand.) alright then, back to work, you gold-rickers. 
(supervisor rick and cool rick walk away. the assembly line restarts.) 
[transition to mortytown] 
(the cop cruiser goes down the streets of mortytown, where out-and-down mortys view it with suspicion.) 
cop morty: no ricks, no families, high off their asses and runnin amok. mortys are raised to be sidekicks. without a side to kick, they just start kickin . 
[ext. morty mart] 
(morty mart morty speaks to cop rick and cop morty about the robbery. cop rick takes down notes. behind morty mart morty, a purple morty with an alien mutation mops the floor) 
morty mart morty: they were, they were about my height, around fourteen years old oh! their shirts were yellow! 
cop morty: sarcastically yeah, make sure you get that down. 
cop rick: any mutations? augmentations? three eyes, a tail, maybe a buzzcut? 
morty mart morty: no, just four normal mortys. 
purple morty: normal ? 
morty mart morty: put it in your blog. 
cop morty: looking at two mortys in a nearby alley lemme turn over a few rocks. 
(cop morty approaches the two street mortys as they spraypaint the alley wall.) 
cop morty: aw geez, hey, what s goin on, fellas? 
morty 1: aw geez, man, nothin man, we re just hangin out and stuff. 
cop morty: i hear that, ah geez, i guess i m supposed to be figuring out who robbed the store across the street but aw geez i dunno. 
morty 2: smirking ah geez man, that sucks that your rick s makin you do that. 
cop morty: angered he s not my rick. he s my partner. aw geez. 
morty 1: well, maybe the uniform makes a big difference. who am i to say? to me, you just look like a sidekick. 
(cop morty snaps in a fit of rage and pins morty 1 to the wall, shoving a large gun in his mouth.) 
cop morty: call me a sidekick one more time. call me a sidekick! 
morty 2: hey man! c mon, aw geez! 
(cop rick looks on, seemingly uncertain what to do.) 
cop morty: wanna see how i paint a wall? 
morty 2: it was the mortytown locos, man! the mortytown locos! 
(cop morty releases morty 1. both street mortys flee. cop morty walks back to the cruiser.) 
cop rick: do you realize how many codes you just violated? 
cop morty: aw geez, rick. what do i know about knowin stuff? get in the fucking car. 
[transition to presidential debate] 
(the five rick candidates and candidate morty stand at podiums.) 
retired general rick: more lasers. 
moderator rick: you can take more time to answer the question if you d like. (silence.)... okay, juggling rick. how would you solve the citadel s financial crisis? 
juggling rick: first off, can i just say that i think this citadel is the greatest in the entire multiverse. now, i believe the answer to your question has three parts. (he reveals he s holding three balls.) first, education spending must get muuuch higher! starts tossing one ball 
[int. behind the scenes] 
(behind the scenes, campaign manager morty watches the debate on a screen.) 
juggling rick: but it has to be balanced with defense! starts juggling all three balls whoa! 
campaign manager morty: can we fact-check this, please? never mind, who am i kidding? this race is over. 
juggling rick: now juggling three balls and a chainsaw, he catches them all gracefully and that s how you run a citadel. bows 
(ricks and mortys in the audience cheer.) 
moderator rick: candidate morty. the number of displaced mortys is soaring, while rick satisfaction levels are plummeting, and the divide between the two groups has never been wider. smirks solve that one real quick. 
(the audience laughs, but candidate morty looks calm.) 
candidate morty: i don t see a divide between ricks and mortys. 
retired general rick: oh, shocker. farts 
reverse rick outrage: i d like to offer a rebuttal. farts 
rick guilt rick: gentlemen, gentlemen! i think we can all agree on one thing. farts twice well, came out as two things, but you get the idea. 
(all laugh but candidate morty.) you guys finished? (continues his speech.) the division i see is between the ricks and mortys that like the citadel divided, and the rest of us. i see it everywhere i go. 
(candidate morty’s voice can be heard as other scenes are shown.) 
candidate morty: i see it in our schools, where they teach mortys we re all the same because they re threatened by what makes us unique. 
(slick, glasses, lizard, and fat morty sneak out of the school through a window.) 
candidate morty: i see it in our streets, where they give guns to mortys so we re too busy fighting each other to fight real injustice. 
(cop rick and cop morty drive up to bust the mortytown locos.) 
candidate morty: i see it in our factories, where ricks work for a fraction of their boss s salary, even though they re identical and have the same iq. the citadel s problem isn t homeless mortys or outraged ricks. the citadel s problem is the ricks and mortys feeding on the citadel s debt. 
(rick j-22 works at his post in the wafer factory, but becomes enraged, breaks off a piece of machinery to use as a weapon, and enters supervisor rick’s office, where he’s watching the debate. he shoots supervisor rick to death.) 
rick j-22: holy shit. 
(as the factory goes into lockdown, rick j-22 enters the flavor chamber and uses simple rick as a hostage.) 
candidate morty: but i ve got a message for them, from the ricks and mortys keeping it alive. a message from the ricks and mortys that believe in this citadel to the ricks and mortys that don t you are outnumbered! 
(debate audience bursts into applause.) 
[int. backstage] 
campaign manager morty: holy shit. (candidate morty walks backstage.) i don t believe it! i-i can t believe it! 
candidate morty: i know. puts a hand on his shoulder that s why you re fired. walks away 
(campaign manager morty looks downcast. he’s approached by juggling rick.) 
juggling rick: sounds like you re looking for work. i can offer you a very enticing compensation package. sets down bag and unzips it, pulling out three juggling clubs first, let s talk benefits. 
[transition to int. flavor core] 
(rick j-22 paces in the chamber he shares with simple rick while a rick swat team stands outside.) 
simple rick: mumbling to self daddy loves you that s daddy s good girl. 
rick j-22: to simple rick your life is a lie, man. to police all your lives are lies! don t you get it?! they told us we were special because we were ricks but they stripped us of anything that made us unique! 
negotiator rick: through megaphone we know how you feel. we re working stiff ricks just like you, but our assembly line is justice. what are your demands? 
rick j-22: burp i-i-i want a portal gun. unregistered, untraceable, with enough fluid to take me off this goddamn prison! 
swat team rick: the media s outside. 
negotiator rick: well keep em there! 
[transition to ext. simple rick’s wafer cookie factory] 
(cn correspondent rick d716-c reports on the scene.) 
rick d716-c: anyway, so yeah, the suspect says the citadel is a lie built on lies and some other shit. (now sharing the screen with rick d716 and rick d716-b.) i say, appreciate the life you have, because it can always be worse. back to you, ricks. 
rick d716: thank you, rick 716-c. mumbling to d716-b that fuckin guy. 
rick d716-b: tell me about it. 
[transition to newsroom] 
rick d716: ahem. meanwhile in election news, an unexpected turn of events as morty from the morty party soars to the top of the polls. 
[transition to press conference] 
(candidate morty approaches a podium while reporter ricks call out to him.) 
candidate morty: yes? 
reporter rick: morty! what s your original reality and where s your rick? 
candidate morty: gosh. we moved around so much it s hard to remember. i see every rick as my rick. 
[transition to barroom] 
(the press conference is on the bar tv. campaign manager morty watches.) 
candidate morty: i hope they see me as their morty. 
campaign manager morty: holding glass another, please, with less water. 
bartender morty: fixing a new drink hey, cheer up, pal! a morty s gonna be president. gestures to tv imagine this kisser gettin blamed for everything! 
(bartender morty walks away. campaign manager morty takes a drink.) 
campaign manager morty: i guess i shoulda had more faith. 
(investigator rick is sitting a few seats down the bar.) 
investigator rick: it s not faith you need. it s fear. 
(investigator rick takes out a dossier from inside his trenchcoat and slides it over to morty, who takes it uncertainly.) 
campaign manager morty: what s this? 
investigator rick: drains his glass it s secrets. wh-wh-what do you think it is? gets up and walks away look at how i m dressed. 
rick reporter on tv: taking on the system like this, are you afraid at all for your safety? 
(campaign manager morty pulls out the documents in the dossier and looks them over.) 
candidate morty on tv: i d rather live in hope than fear. (campaign manager morty looks shocked at the documents, then looks up at the tv.) if i had to fear anything, i d fear other people being afraid. of fear. itself. 
[transition to int. mortytown locos hideout] 
(the mortytown locos sit around a tv watching the press conference while their rick prepares bootleg portal fluid in a setup similar to a meth lab.) 
candidate morty on tv: but no, i m not afraid. 
mortytown loco: hey rick, man, when there s a morty president, you gonna lick my balls or what? 
(other mortys laugh.) 
bootleg rick: shit, grandson, you keep me peelin squap-squams and slippin nib-nibs i ll lick whatever ain t nailed down. 
(mortytown locos laugh and high-five. suddenly the front door is kicked in. cop morty and cop rick enter with guns drawn.) 
cop rick: hands in the air! 
(all the mortys stand and raise their hands.) 
mortytown loco: what the hell, man? what the hell in hell? 
(cops enter the building, guns still drawn.) 
cop morty: you guys doin a little chemistry homework with grandpa? 
cop rick: is this what i think it is? 
cop morty: bootleg portal fluid. 
(bootleg rick grabs his portal gun and tries to escape, but upon making contact with the faulty portal, he disintigrates.) 
cop morty: guess his math was off. search the place. 
(cop rick goes further into the building while cop morty subdues the mortytown locos. rick enters a bedroom with his gun drawn only to encounter a weeping psychopath morty.) 
psychopath morty: a-are you m-my new rick? 
(cop rick lowers his gun and approaches morty.) 
cop rick: it s okay, morty. 
(he picks up psychopath morty to carry him to safety. psychopath morty pulls out a blade and stabs rick in the shoulder. cop rick falls to his knees and shoots psychopath morty. cop morty runs to the room.) 
cop morty: jesus! 
cop rick: he stabbed me! he got me bad, morty. 
cop morty: approaches rick and kneels down beside him shh, it s okay, you re okay. 
cop rick: you were right cough everything i learned in the academy was-- 
cop morty: it doesn t matter. helps rick to his feet nothing s wrong with putting your faith in a morty. you just gotta pick the right one. 
cop rick: why is there a crib in here? 
cop morty: just somethin they do to make you feel bad. 
(in the front room, the mortytown locos have their hands cuffed and legs shackled.) 
cop rick: boy, i got us knee-deep in paperwork, huh? 
cop morty: go to the car and grab a medipack. lemme worry about this. 
(cop rick goes outside to treat his stab wound. cop morty walks out of the building moments later as it disintegrates in a greenish blast, killing the mortys inside. cop morty gets to the cruiser.) 
cop rick: what happened? 
cop morty: same old story. mortys killing mortys. 
(morty gets in the car. rick stands pensively by the wreckage.) 
(a giant yellow head flies through space toward earth. the earth catches fire and land masses start collapsing as the wind picks up.) 
(a man takes a golf swing in the middle of the storm. a large piece of land drops out in front of him, leaving a large hole.) 
man: hey, golf is easy now! 
(the hole gets larger and the man falls in.) 
man: aahh! golf is hard again! golf is hard agaaaaaaain! 
(a news anchor in a raincoat, terry, is downtown with people panicking in the background as the giant head stares blankly at earth. a news title says “armagheaddon?!”.) 
terry: the view here is the same as yours, jim. a giant head has entered earth s gravity, triggering climate change and natural disasters we thought were impossible for at least another eight years. 
jim: (in news studio) let s not make this political, terry. do we know what this giant head wants? 
(giant head clears its throat, creating a large wind blast) 
giant head: show me what you got. 
(winds pick up and the tides change rapidly with its speech) 
terry: jim, you heard static said, show me what you got. 
giant head: show me what you got. i want to see what you got. (lamp post falls over, terry runs out of frame) 
(rick turns off the tv, they are on the couch) 
rick: oh boy. time to go, morty. 
morty: uhh, where? 
(rick puts on sunglasses) 
rick: the pentagon. i mean, not the pentagon. burp the lame one, here on earth. 
(rick and morty walk out of frame) 
[intro] 
(at the house, winds still blow strongly. summer, beth and jerry are standing outside.) 
summer: is it god? if it s god, do we get out of school? 
beth: it s not god, summer. 
jerry: she s allowed to think it s god if she wants, honey! 
beth: shut up, jerry. 
jerry: ok 
(rick and morty pull out of the garage in the ship.) 
beth: dad, what do you know about this? 
rick: morty and i are going to look into it. you guys hold tight. 
(they fly off) 
(mr. goldenfold arrives on a moped.) 
mr goldenfold: scary stuff, huh? pretty freaky. hi, i m morty s math teacher. i m also part of the street team inviting folks to the church downtown so we can pray together. 
beth: how is praying going to help? 
mr goldenfold: ma am, a giant head in the sky is controlling the weather. did you wanna play checkers? let s be rational! i ll see you at god s house! (leaves) 
(pentagon war room, everyone is arguing) 
president: gentlemen, gentlemen, one at a time! simon? 
simon: seti, norad, and every broadcaster on the planet are attempting to show this being what humanity s got. string theory, world history, the human genome. 
(nathan slams fist on table) 
nathan: have you tried sending it launch codes? mr. president, what america s got is 70, 000 megatons of kaboom-boom! and i say we show it right up this floating head s ass! 
(argument begins again. a portal appears and rick and morty step through.) 
guards: hold it! don t move! (they approach rick and morty with guns) 
rick: stay back! this watch turns people into snakes! 
(guards stop and look at nathan for approval. nathan nods at them, and the guards aim. a laser fires at the guards and they disappear, leaving only snakes.) 
president: stand down. everybody stand down! i m the leader of these people and i m unarmed. there s no need for any more snake-makery. 
rick: my name is rick sanchez. this here s my grandson morty. (drinks from flask) 
everyone: hi, morty. 
morty: hey. 
rick: i ve seen enough of the galaxy to know that what we ve got here is a cromulon from the cygnus-5 expanse. so you can forget about nukes, and you can forget about math. (points to viewscreen showing floating head) this head won t go away until burp earth shows them it s got a hit song. 
everyone: seriously, that s impossible, etc 
simon: you mean like vivaldi? 
rick: no, frasier. a live performance of a newly-written, catchy, original song. the cromulon feed on the talent and showmanship of less-evolved lifeforms. 
president: all right, all right. thank you, mr. sanchez. change of plan, people. get me pharrell, randy newman, billy corgan, and the-dream. (no one responds) the-dream? he wrote umbrella and single ladies ? you people haven t heard of the-dream? 
rick: you re gonna wanna put them on that giant speaker system at your sonic testing facility at area 51. 
nathan: how do you know about that? 
president: for god s sake, nathan, the man turns people into snakes. he can use google maps. 
aide: sir! pharrell, newman, corgan, and that dream guy. they re all dead. 
president: what? how is that possible? do people just die when i name them? 
aide: the grammys, sir. there was an earthquake and all the musicians... (sniffs, holding back tears) all the famous ones, they re gone. 
president: dear god. 
aide: hold on, sir, just a minute. ice-t survived. he s inbound on an f-15, eta two hours. 
rick: good luck, mr. president. 
simon: sir, the magnetic poles are about to reverse. in two hours, there may not be an earth to save. 
(rick opens a portal) 
president: sanchez! are you a musician? 
rick: i dabble, mr. president. 
president: get this man and his grandson on a blackhawk to area 51. 
(at the church, everyone is panicking.) 
father bob: people! everyone! remain calm! every crisis of faith is an opportunity for more faith! when god deals you an 11, you don t fold! you double down, and always hit on a soft that means you, jews. 
jew: i beg your pardon, pastor, but the last i looked outside, it seems to be you that s been dealt the weak hand. jews rule! (no one responds) nobody? ok, tough church. 
principal vagina: hi, principal vagina. the name s real, possibly scandinavian. i m just gonna come out and make this pitch. the old gods are dead. f all previous existing religions. all hail the one true god, the giant head in the sky. 
(everyone reacts) 
principal vagina: ah, di di di di. (to bob) bob, bob, i get it. but unless this (holds up a necklace with a cross) can beat that what have you done for me lately? (tosses necklace to bob) so if you wanna excuse me, i m going out on the sidewalk and dropping to my knees and pledging my eternal soul to the thing that literally controls the f ing weather! (walks out) outta my way! 
pastor bob: ok, if sanity s been restored to this assembly, i d like to talk about the cost of repairing our new organ. sally, the plate, please. 
mr goldenfold: (holds up a dollar) ohhhh, this is my favorite part! 
[helicopters over the desert subtitle nevada desert]
(restricted air space. rick and morty are on a helicopter) 
morty: rick, are you really a musician? 
rick: who s not a musician, morty? 
morty: me! 
rick: yeah, not with that attitude. 
jump master: we re in the drop zone! i m the jump master! my name s jamey! with an e-y! go, go, go! (rick slides down rope) 
morty: b-b-but we don t have a song! 
(outside the church, principal vagina is on the sidewalk on his knees) 
principal vagina: giant head in the sky, please forgive all that we ve done. we re sorry for increased levels of emissions and our racism. and of course, the amber alerts i keep ignoring on my phone. 
(at area 51 speaker system, rick and morty slide down rope out of helicopter) 
rick and morty: whooooooooahhhh!!!! 
(they land on a stage with various live performance equipment on it. the yellow cromulon is in front of the stage staring.) 
rick: (picks up a microphone) all right, morty, let s get ready to do it! why don t you, uh, find a button on one of those keyboards and lay down some kind of beat? 
morty: rick, i think we need to cut our losses. we get our family and portal out of here! 
rick: morty! good music comes from people who are relaxed. just hit a button, morty! gimme a beat! 
morty: oh man, ok, all right, um 
(morty presses a key and a beat starts, rick knocks over a mic stand and starts “singing”) 
rick: ahhhhh yeahhhhh 
ya gotta get schwifty (morty starts beating a tambourine in rhythm) 
ya gotta get schwifty in here it’s time to get schwifty (the president and nathan are watching the performance on a screen inside) 
nathan: get schwifty? what the hell is that? 
president: it s our world s best effort, that s what. 
rick: take off your pants and your panties. shit on the floor. time to get schwifty in here i'm mr. bulldops
nathan: mr. bulldops? 
president: don t analyze it, nathan. it s working! 
rick: take a shit on the floor 
time to get schwifty in here (weather starts to die down around the world) 
(at the church) 
pastor bob: and third-level donors get our all access family pass. 
summer: listen! the storm is stopping! 
(on the stage) 
rick: hey, take your pants off 
it’s schwifty time today (song ends) 
giant head: hmmmm. 
(everyone at area 51 waits in anticipation) 
(at the church) 
principal vagina: please be kind to us for we are but tiny things with entire bodies stuck to your ground. 
(at the stage) 
giant head: i like what you got. good job. 
(giant head flies away) 
(everyone at area 51 cheers and celebrates) 
(at the church, everyone lifts principal vagina, “what do you know, he was right! hooray principal vagina!”) 
beth: now hold on a second, let s be rational about this. 
(everyone stops and stares at beth) 
beth: no, i m i m just saying, we don t know if there s a cause-effect relationship-- 
(earthquake hits, beth falls on ground) 
beth: oh, god, what s going on now? 
(at the stage, rick and morty and area 51 panic) 
(the earth is surrounded by an energy field and disappears. earth reappears in another galaxy with four other planets, a disco ball-like sun, and several different-colored cromulons looking at earth.) 
(at area 51) 
president: what the hell happened? 
aide: mr. president, you re gonna wanna see this. 
rick: i think planet earth has just been transported. 
(at the church) 
principal vagina: the head has left and sent its children! 
beth: holy crap! 
(everyone gets on their knees) 
summer: oh dear giant head, we apologize for that discussion! it will never happen again! 
(everyone starts murmuring prayers) 
(at area 51) 
simon: sir, we ve started picking up on a garbled signal. we re decrypting it now. 
(screen gradually descrambles) 
(screen shows different bands of different aliens on different stages. dance music plays in the background as the cromulon narrates.) 
cromulon: we asked them to show us what they got. and they did. now we ll see which of them has got the most. 24 hours, five planets, five songs. but in the end, there can only be one. planet music! all participation is involuntary. disqualified and losing planets are disintegrated by plasma ray. 
rick: uhh, it s probably a bad time to mention it, but any astronauts you guys had in orbit are definitely dead. 
act 2 (dance music plays, planet music opening shows) 
cromulon: welcome back to planet music! first up, let s hear the latest song from planet parblesnops. the greebybobes! show me what you got. 
greebybobe: hold it, hold it, stop! music isn t about competition or captivity! if you love music, you love freedom. let these worlds be free, please! 
cromulon: disqualified! 
(plasma ray powers up and fires at the planet, blowing it up) 
cromulon: there s one every season. moving on to planet arbolez meterosos. arbolian meterososians. show us what you got. 
arbolian meterososian: ah two, three, four 
(the arbolian meterososians play a very simple and underwhelming song while looking at the cromulons for approval.) 
(at area 51. rick, morty and ice-t are in a studio with several instruments. rick is playing a bass, morty is poking at a keyboard, and ice-t is in the corner. the aide comes in.) 
aide: rick, morty, ice-t. the timetable s moved up. earth s on in six hours. 
morty: like we re not already under enough pressure! (morty flips a bowl of peanuts at the aide and it hits him in the head. the aide leaves.) 
rick and ice-t: whoa ho ho ho ho! 
rick: geez, morty. the guy s just doing his job. take it easy. 
morty: rick, ice-t, could you guys take it less easy?! we ve got six hours to come up with a song! 
rick: genius happens in the moment, morty. (walks over to keyboard) 
morty: well, can we at least go get our family? you know, so we can take them with-with-with us if we lose? 
rick: that s planning for failure, morty. even dumber than regular planning. (presses a button on the keyboard) balls. 
(morty walks toward the portal gun) 
rick: morty, morty, stop! listen! there s only so much charge left in this thing. if we portal home from here and back, we re not gonna have enough charge left to get off-world. get it? 
morty: what?! 
rick: yeah, burp you see, i try to shelter you from certain realities, burp morty. cause if i let you make me nervous, then we can t get schwifty. 
morty: stop saying it like it s a thing! you made it up! 
rick: hey, morty! could you lick my (rick presses keys on the keyboard with the sample of him saying balls ) 
(the president, nathan, and his aide are watching them through a window) 
morty: rick, cut it out! that s not funny, rick! 
nathan: i ve seen enough. these guys are one-hit wonders. 
president: and what s your plan, general? 
nathan: we still have the nuclear option. on my word, we can launch a nuclear missile at every one of those heads in the sky. 
president: our planet s held captive on a live game show and your solution is to shoot the audience? you can put your faith in nukes if we get through this, general. until then, i ll put mine in rick and morty. get schwifty was a jam. 
(in field outside church, everyone is dressed in robes wearing head hats. principal vagina is holding a homemade satellite on a stick with an earbud) 
principal vagina: hello? yes sir, yeah. thank you sir, thank you. he says he s proud of what we re doing and hopes we have a great ascension festival! happy ascension! 
all: happy ascension! 
(jerry is holding an ice cream cone, beth looks unimpressed.) 
beth: we should pack up and leave town now. 
jerry: i think it s inspiring that our community is coping with fear in a way that involves a festival and homemade ice cream. if you d stop being such an evangelical atheist, you might start enjoying yourself. 
(summer arrives wearing a head hat, holding two head hats. beth double-facepalms.) 
jerry: whoa! look at you! you re wearing the hat and everything! 
summer: here s yours! (puts hat on jerry) mom, do you mind if i cook dinner tonight? 
beth: yeah, sure. wait, what?? 
summer: i love you guys. you gave me life. and it s the will of the many heads that all children honor their parents. 
beth: dinner sounds nice. 
(ethan arrives.) 
ethan: pardon, mr. and mrs. smith. summer, are you coming to the ascension? 
summer: father, can we please go to the ascension? 
jerry: sure! let s go to the ascension. wh-wh-what is it? 
(three people are each tied to a bunch of balloons, tethered to a stake in the ground. one is labeled “thief”, another labeled “goth”, and the third labeled “movie talker”.) 
principal vagina: we hereby send these un-wantables skyward that they might be inhaled by the many heads, later to be sneezed back to us as better babies! (cuts first rope) headward, free now to rise. (cuts second rope) headward, free now to rise. (cuts third rope) headward, free now to rise. 
summer: oh yes, yes! rise to the giant head! you are free to be free! 
(in the studio) 
ice-t: a squeegee comes up from the garage, right? and he s got a lobster in one hand and movie tickets in the other. he s like, i m ready! 
(rick and ice-t laugh) 
ice-t: who would take a lobster to see iron man 3? 
(rick and ice-t laugh) 
ice-t: aw, damn. we re out of original flavor fig newtons. i should get going anyway. 
rick: wait, wait, wait! come on, h-hold on a second! 
(rick grabs the portal gun, hits a couple buttons, makes a portal in the floor and drops through it. another portal appears in the ceiling and rick drops out of it with several snacks.) 
morty: what?! 
ice-t: damn. you didn t tell me you f around with portals and shit. 
morty: that s it! 
(morty grabs the portal gun and gets up.) 
rick: whoa, whoa! morty! give me that! 
morty: you lied! you lied about the charge! you were just being lazy! get back! sit down! 
rick: morty, just put it down. you don t know what you re doing. 
(morty turns to a wall and fires a portal.) 
morty: i m going to go find mom and dad. 
rick: nooooo! 
(morty jumps through the portal and rick tries to grab him, but the portal closes.) 
rick: ahhhh, sh ! 
president: ah, sh . 
(morty steps through different portals to different worlds, ending up in buttworld.) 
morty: ahhh, sh . 
(outside of the smiths’ home, summer, beth and jerry are hoeing the front yard.) 
summer: and then ethan played guitar and we learned the seven contemplations of the head by singing them. it was really fun. praise be the head! 
jerry and beth: praise be the 
jerry: yeah. 
(principal vagina arrives on a bicycle with a seat, bell ringing.) 
principal vagina: hi folks, head priest vagina. thanks for farming all those potatoes. it s 6 p. m., so if you re a parent, you re now entitled to adoration from your children. 
summer: i m going to start dinner! (walks into the house) 
beth: i don t know what to say. summer is doing really well here. 
jerry: she s aced every test in potato class, and look how important potatoes have become. 
(someone tied to balloons floats by in the background with label “inappropriate joke teller”.) 
beth: she s not getting pregnant or doing drugs or missing curfew 
balloon man: please help me! you can reach me if you try. please help me!! 
beth: that s not our business as long as summer is thriving! 
(inside the smiths’ house, summer serves dinner at the table.) 
summer: taco time! (summer pulls off the lid to reveal exactly 12 tacos.) i hope it pleases you as the head desires. 
beth: that s wonderful, summer! 
jerry: we re so proud of you. but honestly, you don t have to make dinner every night. 
summer: of course i do, silly! (gasps and drops lid) oh my god, daddy, i m sorry i called you silly! i m so sorry! (turns around and drops to knees) heavenly head and cranial creator! forgive my transgressions against family and community! may my chores complete me as i complete them! 
(summer sulks out of the dining room and up the stairs.) 
(morty stumbles out of a portal on a green world and collapses to the ground holding the portal gun. a figure looms over morty, pokes him with a stick, then rolls him over.) 
birdperson: morty. 
morty: birdperson? 
birdperson: you appear to be dying. i will make efforts to prevent this, but can promise nothing. 
(in the studio, rick plays with the keyboard and ice-t is in the corner on his phone.) 
rick: wh-what do you think, ice? probably a little over-developed. 
ice-t: shit. over-developed, under-developed. bad songs are bad songs. 
rick: well, do you think maybe, could you give me some help with it, or ? 
ice-t: ah, hell no, man. you do your thing, but i can t afford to get my pride wrapped up in your shame. you know what i m sayin ? 
rick: ice, i don t want to be a negative nelly or anything, but burp if morty doesn t come back with my portal gun and i eat it out there, it s, uh, kind of your problem too. 
ice-t: pfff. i ain t worried about no earth blowin up, man. 
rick: what? why not? 
ice-t: yo, this is why. 
(ice-t transforms into a floating ice shard with the same face.) 
rick: what the f ? you can turn into ice? 
ice-t: my story begins at the dawn of time in the far away realm of alphabetrium. there, every being is a letter of the alphabet. but i was frozen and exiled to the cosmos by my elders as punishment for not caring enough about anything. earth is just one of the many stops on my lifelong journey with no destination. so you better believe i don t care if it blows up! cause i ll just be ice, floatin through space, like a comet! 
rick: take it from me, ice. burp you can t just burp float around space not caring about stuff forever. 
ice-t: pshhhh. man, watch me. good luck, rick. 
(ice-t blasts out of the ceiling of the studio.) 
president: ok, things are getting out of hand. i better make sure rick has everything he needs to get schwifty. 
nathan: oh, for god s sake, that s enough. 
(nathan pulls a gun on the president) 
president: what the hell are you doing, nathan? i m the goddamn president of the united f in states! 
nathan: i m setting the nuclear option to launch one minute into earth s performance. and you, mr. president, i hope you like being hit in the face with a gun! 
president: wait, wait, wait, why-why-- 
(nathan pistol-whips the president and he falls to the ground.) 
(at birdperson’s residence, birdperson serves morty a bowl of food and tinkers with the portal gun.) 
birdperson: i believe i can access the history of rick s gun and help you get back to him. 
morty: but can you help me get to my family? you know, at my house? 
birdperson: is your intention to abandon rick using his own portal gun? in bird culture, this is considered a dick move. 
morty: all of rick s moves are dick moves! wh-what am i eating? what is this, bird seed? 
birdperson: it is random debris. i found it in my carpet. i don t know what humans eat. 
(tammy arrives wearing a bathrobe.) 
tammy: you know what this human eats! 
birdperson: don t be gross, tammy. 
tammy: (leans over to morty and whispers) bird d . 
morty: tammy gross. birdperson, you always stick up for rick, but he doesn t care about anyone but himself. he doesn t think about the consequences of anything he does. 
birdperson: and as a result, he has the power to save or destroy entire worlds. and he is the reason you and i know each other. and the reason i m alive at all. 
(birdperson points to a wall of photos of himself and rick together. last shown is rick holding a baby.) 
morty: what s that? who s that baby? 
birdperson: morty, suppose you could retrieve your family from earth but had to abandon rick. i could give your loved ones shelter on birdworld, even jobs, possibly as worm ranchers. how often do you think you might look up at the stars and wonder what might have been had you just put your faith in rick? 
(morty stands in thought for a moment. planet music starts back up on the tv.) 
cromulon: that was chunky tunk with full ming mong, empty gorp dorp. up next, planet earth! 
morty: oh god! we re up?!?! 
(at the church, principal vagina and other priests are talking with jerry and beth.) 
principal vagina: jerry and beth, your family is a golden example of what headism has to offer the world. 
beth: the world? 
principal vagina: headism is a hit. we re taking it worldwide and would like jerry to be our church s head of advertising. 
jerry: you would? 
principal vagina: beth, we d like to promote you from horse surgeon, straight past human surgeon, to head of medicine. 
beth: that s my dream! that s my dream. 
jerry: thank you. this is all so overwhelming, but, uh we can t. 
beth: absolutely not. 
principal vagina: i m sorry? 
beth: we ve been waiting 16 years for our daughter to respect us, but the key is, it has to be our daughter, not this person she s become. 
jerry: we ll take our chances raising her without fancy new jobs outside of a potato-based religion. (turns and puts his hands on beth s shoulders) and you know what? i m sick of pretending that we re together because of the kids in the first place! i married you because you re the love of my life! 
beth: (puts her hands on jerry s sides) and i m lucky to have you and i never tell you that! you know, we will come out of this stronger as a family! 
cut: summer has tied beth and jerry to ropes and balloons outside.) 
beth: please don t do this, please don t do this! summer! 
jerry: summer, listen carefully. i stole a paper clip and i have it in my cheek but i don t know what to do with it and it hurts. 
summer: you re going to be ok! (ties another balloon to them) you will come back as babies! 
jerry: i am a baby! i m a baby now! 
(in the now empty studio, a portal opens up and morty steps through.) 
morty: hello? is anybody here? (looks through the studio window and sees the president tied up) mr. president! 
(morty darts out of the studio to the president and unties him. the president climbs up to the console and presses a button) 
president: this is bluebird. code tango-niner-alpha. abort launch. abort! hello? (releases button) he s blocked me out. 
morty: sir, i need to get to the stage and help rick get schwifty! 
president: it won t matter how schwifty you get, morty. the general s got nukes set to launch halfway through earth s song! 
morty: oh my god! c-c-can you fly a blackhawk? 
president: can the pope s d fit through a donut? 
morty: uhhh, i m not sure? 
president: exactly! 
(on the stage, rick stands before the cromulons.) 
cromulon: show me what you got. 
rick: ahem. (starts a low-key, bouncy song) uhhh lop-oo-lop-oo-lop-oo-dups, nop-oo-nop-oo-nop-oo-nuts. 
(outside the church, principal vagina is preparing to cut beth and jerry loose. the cromulons' faces become angry.) 
principal vagina: headward free now to rise! 
mr goldenfold: hey! look at the heads! looks like the heads are gettin angry! 
(in the desert, the president flies the helicopter clumsily to the stage with morty in tow.) 
president: i m really bad at this, morty! there are way too many buttons on this thing! 
morty: mr. president, if i ve learned one thing today, it s that sometimes, you have to not give a f ! 
(on the stage, rick continues his song.) 
rick: nup-oo-nup-oo-nup-oo-nups ooh, tough crowd. 
(outside the church, principal vagina is preparing to cut beth and jerry loose.) 
principal vagina: i m sure that has that has nothing to do with this. 
(principal vagina cuts the rope and the cromulons immediately start booing.) 
summer: the heads are displeased! (she jumps and grabs beth and jerry s legs.) 
ethan: summer! (he jumps and grabs her.) 
(on the stage rick continues his song as the blackhawk arrives. morty and the president slide down ropes out of the helicopter onto the stage.) 
rick: morty! 
(the cromulons begin cheering with “yay!” and “hooray!” etc. with smiles on their faces. the now unmanned helicopter crashes off frame.) 
(outside the church, summer and ethan are pulling beth and jerry down to the ground.) 
mr goldenfold: the heads love this! they love it when we don t kill the smith family! 
(the balloons are released, but beth and jerry are still tied up.) 
principal vagina: no! stop that! you re not allowed to interpret the will of the heads! 
(on the stage, the president grabs the microphone and speaks to the control room staff.) 
president: call off the nuclear strike! this is the president. stop the nuclear missile launch! 
nathan: just launch the missiles! 
(nathan smashes a button and two nuclear missiles emerge from the ground in the desert. the cromulons watch as the missiles fly toward the yellow cromulon and lay puny explosions on its chin.) 
cromulon: boo! not cool! 
(outside the church) 
principal vagina: i m the only one that speaks to the heads! 
(cromulon zooms in close to earth) 
cromulon: disqualified! 
mr goldenfold: the heads disqualified vagina! get him! 
(the mob runs toward principal vagina. the cromulon zooms closer.) 
(on the stage) 
cromulon: disqualified! disqualified! 
(the plasma ray points toward earth and begins powering up. the control room staff evacuates. the plasma ray heads right for the stage but something flies in the way and blocks it.) 
all: ice-t? 
(ice-t slowly crumbles from the plasma ray’s power) 
ice-t: that s right, it s me, ice-t! i care now! you made me care more! with all due respect, i d like to hear what rick and morty have to play. 
morty: what do you say, rick? 
rick: i say (grabs mic) let s do it! 
(morty presses a button on the keyboard and a different beat starts playing. the heads start with “hooray” etc while smiling. rick claps over his head and morty dances a little.) 
rick: all right! 
morty: ohhhh yeahhhh! 
rick: come on, here we go! 
morty: ohhhh yeahhhh! 
rick: say it with me! 
all: head bent over 
raised up posterior head bent over (ahh yeah) 
raised up posterior (outside the church, principal vagina is ties up with balloons and rope. a different person cuts the rope. vagina sees the heads smiling as he rises.) 
principal vagina: ohhh my gooooodddd!!! 
(on the stage) 
all: head bent over (yeah) 
raised up posterior (oh yeah) 
head bent over (oh yeah) 
(raised up posterior!) 
cromulon: after 988 seasons of planet music, the cromulons have decided to declare earth the final winner and bring our musical reality show to a conclusion. goodbye! 
(earth is transported back to the right place.) 
all: yeah, we did it! 
(outside the church, everyone is still and silent.) 
mr goldenfold: did he just say musical reality show ? 
jerry: yeah, it s possible that we may have been correlating some things that weren t actually related at all. 
(principal vagina floats by in the background.) 
principal vagina: heeeeellllpppp!!!!! 
beth: we should go get him. 
(at area 51, everyone is celebrating. the president shakes hands with morty.) 
president: i hope i can call on you again if we need you, morty. 
morty: sure thing! and i was kinda hoping that i could get a selfie with you? 
(the president waves over secret service.) 
president: actually, if you try to tell anyone what happened here, we ll deny it and probably worse. 
(a secret service agent grabs morty’s phone and snaps it in half.) 
morty: understood. 
(nathan runs toward them with a gun.) 
nathan: diiiieeee!!!! 
(he is hit with an energy blast from rick and disappears.) 
president: why didn t he turn into a snake? 
rick: trade secret, mr. president. particle beam in a wristwatch snake holster on the leg. 
(he pulls up his pant leg to reveal a holster which a snake crawls out of. the snake slithers away and a soldier whistles impressed. the president begins laughing and hugs rick.) 
president: i love this man! 
[credits] 
[on alphabetrium ice-t enters a great hall containing his elders]
(a grey j, a gaseous f with a female face, and a q made of lava. all three are holding different scepters.) 
ice-t: magnesium-j, hydrogen-f. father. 
magnesium-j: word of your selfless acts on the earth planet have travelled across the galaxy. 
ice-t: i have changed. i am ready to rejoin my brethren on alphabetrium. 
magnesium-j: very well. your exile ends today! 
(all three press their scepters on the ground and the scepters glow. the beams form another beam that hits ice-t and transforms him into a letter t made of water.) 
magnesium-j: welcome home... water-t. 
(the hall shakes and begins falling apart.) 
purple-p: the numbericons! they re attacking! 
magnesium-j: battle stations! 
(a piece of the building falls on magma-q. water-t runs over to him.) 
water-t: father! 
magma-q: i love you son. i should have never turned you to ice. (he dies.) 
(water-t produces a pistol on each t-end and begins walking out.) 
magnesium-j: water-t, where are you going? there s too many of them! 
(a dramatic zoom to water-t’s face.) 
water-t: then i better crunch the numbers. 
(water-t bursts out of the door shooting at several numbericons)
[the frame freezes mid-action and we hear gunshots and screaming]
[a title appears. this summer, water-t and the rise of the numbericons] 
[end] 
summer: bye, mom! bye, dad! 
morty: drive carefully! 
rick: have fun, you two, 
beth: yes, we will have as much fun as possible on our... titanic-themed getaway, 
jerry: let's lose the'tude, please, it's supposed to be romantic, 
beth: speaking of disasters, dad, we are leaving you in charge, here, 
rick: i know, c-can we wrap this up? morty and i have some synthetic laser eels oxidizing in the garage, 
beth: hey, don't blow me off, i am drawing a line, okay? any damage to this house or these children when we get back, and... n-no more adventures with morty, 
morty: aw, geez, rick, if my mom's the one who's saying it, then you know it's pretty serious this time, 
both: that's right, 
jerry: wait, what? 
rick: listen, you have my word as a caregiver, everything's gonna be fine, and if not, like you say, no more adventures or whatever, it's like that old song"blomp blomp-a noop noop a-noop noop noop,"y-you guys know that song? from tiny rogerts? you never heard of it? you know, the black effeminate guy from the'50s? no-nobody? a-all right, whatever, look, who cares? just go on your stupid trip, 
jerry: not one thing out of place, 
[ engine turns over ] 
jerry: not a single thing, 
[ bubbling, crackling ] 
summer: well, we're past the point of no return, i'm going to have a party, i found jello, can you sneak your mom's vodka? yes, she does, i saw it in your laundry room, listen, you can't both be in denial about it, okay, bye, 
morty: summer, you can't throw a party! remember what mom said? 
summer: yeah, if anything gets messed up, you and grandpa rick get punished, i'm only a human being, morty, 
morty: rick, tell summer she can't have a party! 
rick: uh, summer, you can't have a party, 
summer:[scoffs] 
rick: because i'm having a party, b-i-i-i-itch! 
morty: oh, what?! rick, you can't! 
summer: what do you mean you're having a party? are some glip glops from the third dimension going to come over and play cards or something? 
rick:"glip glop?"you're lucky a traflorkian doesn't hear you say that, 
summer: is that like their n-word? 
rick: it's like the n-word and the c-word had a baby and it was raised by all the bad words for jews, 
morty: listen, i think the three of us could just, you know, have a nice time, like just hanging out, and, you know, doing a little bonding and-- 
summer: screw that, this is my chance to gain some footing with the cool kids, 
rick: that's why you party? boy, you really are 17, 
summer: why do you party? 
rick: to get wr-wriggedy wriggedy wrecked, son! 
summer: just keep your sci-fi friends away from my awesome ones, 
rick: yeah, and you keep your awesome friends away from my canapes, 
captain: after dinner, titanic 2 will attach to the rail system near our replica iceberg, and the hydraulics encased in these tubes will execute a controlled sink into the icy depths, 
jerry: a rail system seems archaic for an attraction this impressive, are you sure the ship will sink? 
captain: i can assure you the ship will sink, as it has a thousand times before, it is un-unsinkable, ooh! 
jerry: look, it's the line for the bow! 
beth: jerry, i'd love to just kick back with a margarita and read, do you mind if i skip the whole"king of the world"bit? 
jerry: well, it's not the"king of the world"bit, that's jack and fabrizio, this is where rose says,"i'm flying, jack!"but whatever, i can be the only one to do it alone, 
beth: well, what about her? excuse me, ma'am, would you like to take my place in line? 
lucy: i, uh--i could get into trouble, 
beth: we won't tell, 
jerry: so... you're a titanic fanatic? oh, yes, 
lucy: i've worked here since it opened, but i've never been able to participate, 
jerry: happy to help... rose, 
[ giggles ] 
tammy: i love watching bukkake, i mean, like, i don't know if i personally would ever do it 
summer: brad! hey! brad yo, 
tammy: brad is here! quick, make my hair look drunk, 
brad: check it out, tammy's already drunk, cool, 
birdperson: the beacon was activated, who is in danger? 
summer: ugh! grandpa! 
rick: birdperson! 
birdperson: i am pleased there is no emergency, 
rick: oh, there's an emergency, all right, a[bleep] emergency! when's the last time you got laid,'pers? 
birdperson: it has been a... challenging mating season for birdperson, 
rick: then it's time to get your beak wet tonight, playah, go have some fun out there birdp--bird--birdperson, 
morty: oh, man, how many people did you invite, rick? 
rick: uh... people? mm, six, yo! what up, my glip glops?! 
morty: oh, man! 
[ electronic music plays ] [ breathing heavily ] 
oh morty: y-y-you know there's a garbage, right? hey, uh, what the hell?! alien ooh, that's why you never invite a floopy doop and a shmoopy doop to the same party, 
[ bed springs squeaking ] 
morty: oh, oh, g--oh, that's disgusting! you guys are in my parents'bed! 
alien: oh, sorry, i'm not feeling too well, i just needed to lie down for a bit, 
morty: oh, okay, s-s-sorry, 
[ groans ] 
morty: oh, my god! are you kidding me?! 
gearhead: the thing people don't realize about the gear wars is that it was never really about the gears at all, 
rick: uh-huh, yeah, no, no, to-totally, 
morty: rick, you got to stop-- 
rick: morty! have you met gearhead? 
morty: hey, how's-- 
rick: morty here, he--he would love to hear all about the gear wars, 
gearhead: how familiar are you with the gear wars, exactly? morty uh... not at all, 
gearhead: oh, boy, i envy you, okay, it was about 754 years ago 
rick: oh, hey, morty! h-have you--have you met my buddy scropon? 
morty: not again, rick, that last guy droned on for 20 minutes, you know? and meanwhile, the whole house is being destroyed! 
rick: whoa, morty, this guy's entire planet was destroyed, have a little perspective, 
squanchy: hey, rick, squanchy party, bro! 
rick: aw! squanchy! 
squanchy: is there a good place for me squanch around here? 
rick: squanchy, you can squanch wherever you want, man, mi casa es su casa, dawg! 
squanchy: all right! i like your squanch! 
morty: uh, rick, what exactly is"squanching"? 
rick: morty, listen--we've had a lot of really cool adventures over the last year, but it's time to relax, 
morty: yeah, if i relax now, there might not even be any more adventures! 
rick: jesus, morty, you're bumming me out, can't we just pretend like everything's fine for a few hours, enjoy ourselves, and then worry about all this later? 
morty: yeah, that's easy for you to say, rick, you know, you like not caring about stuff, you know, wh-wh-what's in this for me? 
[ soft music plays ] [ indistinct conversations ] 
morty: jessica, 
rick: knock it off, slow mobius! 
slow mobius: ha ha! sorry, dude! i'm just trying to show off my powers, bro! 
morty: i can't believe she's here, 
rick: well, what are you doing standing here, morty? go, talk to her, tonight, the only adventure you're on is your cusping manhood, 
[ both laugh ] 
jerry: oh, rose, 
lucy: whee! 
jerry: is that what i think it is? 
lucy: yes, every couple gets to re-create jack's drowning at the end of the movie, it's so romantic, 
jerry: i can't wait to do that with beth, 
lucy: i don't know, jerry, with all due respect, it seems like your wife may not be that interested, 
jerry: look! 
captain: iceberg, right ahead! the buffet is now closed, iceberg, right ahead! the buffet is now closed, 
sailor: uh, sir? there's not a problem, 
captain: what do you mean there's not a problem? 
sailor: the guidance system isn't putting us on a direct collision course, this ship is about to completely miss the giant iceberg! 
captain: well, do something! steer into it! 
sailor: i'm trying! 
captain: it's too late, ladies and gentlemen... don't brace yourselves, 
[ all gasping ] 
jerry: no! no! what happened?! 
lucy: their rail system must have failed, 
crowd: oh, my god! we're not gonna sink! 
party goer: totally gonna get laid tonight, 
tammy: i like your feathers, 
birdperson: they are designed to attract the attention of the female, 
tammy: it's working, 
birdperson: tammy, i should let you know i just got out of a highly intense soul bond with my previous spirit mate, 
tammy: i'm not looking to get into a soul bond, i'm just looking for... 
birdperson: i believe birdperson can arrange that, 
nancy: hey, summer, haven't seen you at flute practice in a while, 
cool girl: summer, don't tell me you're friends with her, 
summer: are you kidding me? i don't even know what she's doing here, 
rick: whoa, not cool, summer, this is a party, everybody should be welcome, 
[ crashes ] 
rick: oh, great, who invited abradolph lincoler? 
summer: i thought everyone was welcome, 
rick: it's not the same, summer, lincoler is a crazed maniac--just a misguided effort of mine to create a morally neutral superleader by combining the dna of adolf hitler and abraham lincoln, turns out it just adds up to a lame, weird loser, 
lincoler: rick, you brought me into this world, a suffering abomination tortured by the duality of its being, but i shall finally know peace when i watch the life drain from your wretched body! 
brad: whoa, what's up, man? 
lincoler: i have no quarrel with you, boy, 
brad:"boy"? what's that supposed to mean? 
lincoler: it's just--l-look, i-i don't know how you thought i meant it, but... 
rick: don't look at me, dude, 
lincoler: look, i'm half-abraham lincoln, so-- 
brad: so i should get on my knees and kiss your ass?! 
lincoler: well, no, but... you know? 
brad: what do i know? that the third reich will reign for a thousand years? 
jessica: leave him alone, brad, 
brad: stay out of this, jessica! 
rick: kick his ass, brad! kick his ass! 
all: kick his ass! kick his ass! 
jessica: brad! 
[ grunts ] 
morty: rick! 
rick: i just did you a favor, morty, 
morty: sorry about all that, rick has some really strange friends, 
jessica: ugh! brad is such a jerk, he's always trying to prove what a man he is, i just want to find somebody nice and sweet, 
morty: jessica, can i show you something? 
jessica: wow! look at all this stuff, 
morty: yeah, this is me and my grandpa rick's sci-fi workshop, check this out, 
[ projector beeping ] 
jessica: it's beautiful, 
morty: you know, jessica, there's something i've always wanted to tell you, 
jessica: what's that, morty? 
morty: i think that you're the most-- 
jessica: no, that--those weird sounds coming from the closet over there, 
[ closet rattling ] 
morty: oh, my god! 
squanchy: aah! hey, i'm squanching in here! 
morty: oh, my god! oh, that is so disgusting! ow! oh! oh, crap! 
[ device warbling ] [ warbling ] [ all screaming ] 
rick: huh, big star in the sky,[inhales sharply] oxygen-rich atmosphere, giant testicle monsters, we'll be fine! let's party! 
[ all cheering ] 
♪ just shake that ass, bitch, and let me see whatcha got ♪ ♪ just shake that ass ♪ 
summer: i swear to god morty, if it weren't for the fact that everyone's still having a blast in there, i would be so furious with you right now, 
rick: oh, man, y-you hear that, morty? you really lucked out with summer o-on that one, 
morty: how are you guys not freaking out right now?! t-the whole house is sitting in another dimension! i-i mean, w-what the hell are we supposed to do?! m-m-mom and dad are gonna kill us! i'm losing it here, rick! 
rick: relax, morty, relax! it's gonna be fine, all we have to do is go out and find us some kalaxian crystals, 
[ detector beeping ] 
rick: oh, shit, mother[bleep] kalaxian crystals, morty, just a few miles south of here, 
morty: okay, let's go, then, w-w-we got to go get those crystals right now, rick, 
rick: whoa, whoa, whoa, morty, morty, i-i can't go with you, i got to hang back and make sure everything stays cool here, you know? i mean, who knows what--what if somebody breaks something? 
summer: yeah, me too, i should stay, 
lincoler: you guys have any aspirin? 
rick: oh, hey, morty, this is perfect! you can take lincoler with you, 
lincoler: hey, man, i'm not going anywhere, i'm injured, 
rick: shut up, lincoler, it's the least you can do for wrecking the living room, 
summer: yeah! and, nancy, you should go, too, 
nancy: what? why--why me? 
summer: because, uh, you're--you're so good at playing the flute, 
captain: sorry for the inconvenience, folks, we should resume sinking shortly, in the meantime, please, stay on the ship and enjoy a complimentary plate of james cameronion rings, 
jerry: great, not only is the ship not sinking, but now the fourth wall has been broken, 
beth:[sighs] i am gonna go back to the room to finish my book, you should find that lucy woman, 
jerry: but--but-- 
lucy:[clears throat] you see, jerry? may i show you something? had everything gone as planned, this entire area would be underwater, 
jerry:[sighs] i would have liked to see it, this trip has been a"titanic"failure, get it? 
lucy: ooh! draw me, jerry, 
jerry: oh, boy, lucy, wow, uh, this isn't what i had in mind, 
lucy: but it's the perfect moment, we've been dreaming about this for 16 years, 
jerry: um, not like this, not--not with you, 
lucy: you are gonna draw me, 
jerry: aah! 
lucy: then you're going to[bleep] me in that car over there, 
lincoler: it's weird,'cause i definitely think that all men are created equal, but, at the same time-- 
morty: okay! um, the crystals should be really close, 
nancy: there they are! 
[ detector beeps ] 
lincoler: wait, something's not right, 
[ creature growls ] [ screams ] [ creature roars ] 
lincoler: get the crystals! i'll handle the beast! prepare to be emancipated from your own inferior genes! 
[ grunting ] 
nancy: summer's gonna like me again, 
[ creature growling ] [ grunts ] [ grunts ] 
morty: lincoler, come on! let's get out of here! 
lincoler: mein journey is over, morty,[groaning] i have something important to tell you, 
gearhead:♪ and the gears, they turned for a thousand years♪♪ until the dark day that they stopped♪ 
morty: rick, i got them! i got the crystals! 
rick: all right! you did it, morty, 
morty: rick, wait! there's something you need to know, i couldn't have done it without lincoler, he said that he was really sorry and that he loves you like a father, he only wanted you to accept him, and he hopes that his final act would redeem him in your eyes, he sacrificed himself to save all of us, rick, he died, 
rick: well, at least he didn't die in vain, he got these crystals,[sniffs] and these babies just saved this lame-ass party! wubba, lubba, dub, dub! play something, s-somebody, play something, 
morty: wait a minute, what? 
[ hip-hop music plays ] 
rick:♪ put your right foot forward♪♪ and your left foot back♪♪ then slide around like on a nordictrack♪♪ move to the left♪♪ step to the right♪♪ wiggle your elbows, and look up into the light♪♪ it's the, it's the♪♪ it's the rick dance♪♪ it's the, it's the♪♪ it's the rick dance♪ 
rick: slow mobius, hit me with the clock beam![warbling]♪ it's the, it's the♪♪ it's the rick dance♪ 
rick: that's the rick dance! all right! whoa, man! 
morty: what the hell was that?! i thought those crystals were supposed to help us get home or something! 
rick: what? no, no, no, i can get us home whenever i want to, but, listen, speaking of those crystals, can i get the rest of them? i'm starting to come down, morty, crystal kalaxian is a really strong, but fleeting high, 
[ door slides open ] 
morty:[grunts] that's what i think of your crystals, rick! 
rick: oh, morty, you idiot! does anybody else have any more k-lax? b-birdperson? uh, squanchy? don't squaunch at me, 
morty: all right, everybody, party is officially over! rick, take us home now, 
rick: all right, all right, fine, morty, you party pooper buzzkill! boo, boo! morty sucks! 
crowd: boo! you suck, whatever your name is, 
rick: boo! morty, you're the worst, morty, 
tammy: boo! 
gearhead: but these gears just started turnin', 
lucy: almost finished, jerry? 
jerry: uh, almost, i haven't quite captured your beautiful eyes, 
lucy: i'm sure it's good enough, move! every weekend, jacks and roses have the titanic experience in this car, and i have to mop it up, the floor drops out to make it easier, but now it's my turn, we're going to get it nice and steamy in there, and i'm going to slam my hand on the steam and leave a nice handprint, and then you're going to love inside of me, no mess, no clean,[grunts] 
jerry: beth! 
beth: bet you're glad i think kindles are dumb now, i can't help but feel a little guilty, i didn't peg lucy for a rapist, 
jerry: what does a rapist look like exactly, beth? is it a slavic man wearing a denim jacket with a patchy beard and the scent of cheap champagne wafting over his blister-pocked lips? 
beth: what? well, at least you got all this free stuff, should be enough to satisfy your titanic jones for a while, 
jerry:[grunts] i'm not going to fit, beth, listen to me, you're going to get out of here, you're gonna go on, and-- 
beth: jerry, just leave the door, 
jerry: it's not a door, beth, it's debris, 
beth: i don't care, just leave it, 
jerry: yeah, okay, 
lucy:[laughs evilly]"cape fear"!"cape fear"! i'm--i'm doing--i'm--i'm going to do like from"cape fear,"[grunts, groans][moaning, screaming] 
squanchy: hey, squanchers! the party's squanching on at my place! 
[ all cheering ] 
summer: cool, i'm coming, too, 
squanchy: uh, no, you're not squanchy enough for a squanchy party, 
summer: what? 
squanchy: nancy told us what a bitch you are, summer.
summer: guys, seriously, nancy? 
nancy: summer, you're a bad person, all you care about is having popular people like you, that's not what abradolph lincoler stood for, well, i-it was hard to pin down what he stood for, but it's certainly not what he died for, 
summer: next time i party, i'm just gonna focus on getting totally wrecked, you're so wise, 
rick: [mumbles] 
birdperson: may i assist you with that? 
morty: uh, sure, yeah, thanks, 
birdperson: morty, do you know what"wubba lubba dub dub"means? 
morty: uh, that's just rick's stupid nonsense catchphrase, 
birdperson: it's not nonsense at all, in my people's tongue, it means,"i am in great pain, please help me," 
morty: well, i got news for you, he's saying it ironically, 
birdperson: no, morty, your grandfather is, indeed, in very deep pain, that is why he must numb himself, 
morty: come on, um... 
birdperson: birdperson, 
morty: come on, birdperson, rick's not that complicated, he's just a huge asshole, 
birdperson: then why do you care so much if you are no longer allowed to continue on your adventures together? it appears fate has presented you with an opportunity to free yourself of rick forever, 
morty: you know what? you're right, i shouldn't even care, this is probably the best thing that could have happened to me, i'm sick of having adventures with rick, 
birdperson: my people have another saying--"gubba nub nub doo rah kah,"it means,"whatever lets you sleep at night," 
[ cellphone beeps ] 
summer: guys, mom and dad are, like, right around the corner, 
birdperson: this is your moment, morty, choose wisely, tammy![grunts] caw! 
summer: wow, we are so screwed, 
morty: rick, wake up, 
rick: huh? what? wait? what? what? stop, 
morty: rick, you got to do something quick, my parents are home, 
rick: uh, all--all right, all right, hold--hold on,[gulping] ahh! so good, 
morty: oh, my god, they're walking up the driveway, 
rick: bring me the thing, 
morty: what--what thing? 
rick: the thing, the thing, the--the--it's got, like, buttons on it and lights on it, it--it--it beeps, 
morty: rick! that describes everything in your garage! 
summer: do you mean this? 
rick: summer for--for the win, all right, that should do it, 
morty: whoa! what did you do? 
rick: uh, s-see for yourself, 
summer: whoa! 
rick: yeah, e-everything's frozen in time, yeah, and slow mobius thinks he's all that, 
morty: for how long? 
rick: i don't know, how long do you guys want? a week? a month? 
summer: can we start cleaning the house and see how we feel? 
[ mid-tempo rock music plays ] [ epic music plays ] 
rick: worst movie ever, 
summer: dumb, 
morty: ooh, boy, what a waste of time,[laughter] get it? you know,'cause it's frozen, 
summer: this has been so much fun, 
morty: hey, rick, you know, this whole time, i haven't once heard you say that"wubba lubba dub dub"thing that you usually say, 
rick: don't need to, i have a new catchphrase, 
morty: oh, yeah? what--what's that, rick? 
rick: i love my grandkids, 
both: aww, 
rick: psych! just kidding--my new catchphrase is,"i don't give a[bleep]"♪ just shake that ass, bitch, and let me see whatcha got♪♪ just shake that ass, bitch, and let me see whatcha got♪ roll credits!♪ just shake that a--♪ roll the credits! go!♪ just shake that ass♪ that's the end of season one! that's the end, mother[bleep]"i don't give a[bleep]"is my new catchphrase![bleep] you! that's season one! boom! season one up in your face, mother[bleep] yeah! 
lincoler: revenge, what?! 
party guy: party! whoo, baby! 
lincoler: please, stop! 
party guy: hey, brah! 
lincoler: i don't understand, are you enjoying this? do you like this? 
party guy: yeah, you know it, dawg! whoo, baby! 
[ popping ] 
jerry:[sighs] 
morty: hey, rick, i have to make a project for the science fair this weekend, you think you could help me out? 
rick: whatever, 
jerry: well, i mean, traditionally, science fairs are a father-son thing, 
rick: well, scientifically, traditions are an idiot thing, 
beth: morty, i think it would be fun for you to work on a science project with your dad, 
[ cellphone beeps ] 
morty:[clears throat] yeah, dad, why don't we do it together? 
jerry: yes! you backed the right horse on this one, son, we'll get out the crayons, brew some coffee, and knock this thing out in two or three days, 
robot whirs robot: what is my purpose? 
rick: pass the butter, thank you, 
[ popping ] 
summer: dad, i need a ride to work, 
jerry: maybe rick can give you a ride, i'm helping morty with science, 
rick: i'm busy, 
summer: doing what? 
rick: uh, anything else, robot what is my purpose? 
rick: you pass butter, 
robot: oh, my god, 
rick: yeah, welcome to the club, pal, 
rick: since when you have a job? 
summer: since last week, it's part-time at this little vintage thrift store, my boss is this really smart, eccentric old man that treats me nice and values me, 
rick: meow, can't wait to meet this fascinating character, 
summer: please don't, goldenfold oh, well, when did this stop being jamba juice? 
mr needful: i've just recently opened for business, mister, um, goldenfold, 
goldenfold: you know my name? that's disarming, 
mr needful: i also know you long for female company, goldenfold you know, it has been lonely since the divorce, some voids can't be filled with jamba juice, 
mr needful: this aftershave makes a man quite irresistible to women, free of charge, one never pays here--not with money, goldenfold nothing to read into there, thanks! 
summer: sorry i'm late, mr, needful, this is my grandpa, rick, he was just leaving, 
rick: huh, 
mr needful: tell me, rick, what do you desire? 
rick: eh, i make my own stuff, so, what are you--like, the devil? 
mr needful: what? sorry? 
rick: i don't know, store comes out of nowhere, all the shit's old and creepy, are you the devil? a demon? leprechaun? 
summer: grandpa rick! 
rick: hey, i'm not judging, just like shoot straight, i'm a man of science, 
mr needful: ah, then perhaps you could make use of this, this microscope reveals things beyond comprehension, 
[ laughs ] 
rick:[laughs] 
[ laughs louder ] 
rick:[laughs louder] 
[ laughs louder ] 
rick:[laughs louder] 
summer: grandpa, go home and drink, 
[ swoop! ] 
jerry: why don't we do a model of the solar system? that's what my dad did with me when i was your age, 
morty: oh, okay, 
jerry: you know, rick's in his lab, making cyborgs and wormholes and all that weird stuff, but this is real science, a man and his boy, making planets, hey, how about we use a ping-pong ball for pluto? and then jupiter-- 
morty: uh, actually, i don't think pluto's a planet, 
jerry:[chuckles] of course pluto's a planet, son, i learned that in the third grade, 
morty: well, yeah, but you know they changed it, 
jerry: morty, nobody changed the planets, 
morty: i just googled it, pluto's not a planet, they changed it in 2006, 
jerry: yeah, i heard about that, morty, and i disagree, 
morty: you disagree? 
jerry: that's right, it's possible to disagree in science, morty, pluto was a planet, some committee of fancy assholes disagree, i disagree back, give me a ping-pong ball, 
morty: um, okay, i-i just have to 
jerry: go find rick and go over my head about pluto? 
morty: no, geez, i just got to go to the bathroom, damn, 
jerry: oh, okay, good, this is gonna be fun, 
rick: hey, morty, let me--let me--let me ask you a question real quick, does evil exist, and if so,-can one detect and measure it? 
morty: um... 
rick: rhetorical question, morty, the answer's"yes, you just have to be a genius,"cute, your sister's boss gave me a microscope that would have made me retarded, 
morty: ooh, oh, boy, rick, i'm don't think you're allowed to say that word, you know? 
rick: morty, i'm not disparaging the differently abled, i'm stating the fact that if i had used this microscope, it would have made me mentally retarded, 
morty: okay, yeah, but i don't think it's about logic, rick, i think the word has just become a symbolic issue for powerful groups that feel like they're doing the right thing, 
rick: well, that's retarded, 
jerry: what are you guys talking about? 
rick: apparently, nothing, 
jerry: you asked him if pluto's a planet, didn't you? 
morty: no! 
rick: it's not, 
jerry: shut up, rick, i don't care what anyone says, if i can be a planet, it can be a planet again, planet, planet, planet, planet, 
rick: stay scientific, jerry, 
goldenfold: this aftershave made women want me, but it also made me impotent! mr. needful a price for everything, mr, goldenfold, a price for everything,[laughs evilly] 
goldenfold: oh, my god! how could i not see this coming?![sobbing] my lust! my greed! i deserved this! 
rick: this serum should counteract the negative effects, 
goldenfold: holy cats! ladies, let's get out of here, i haven't learned a thing! 
rick: here, you can have this back, 
mr needful: you didn't use it? 
rick: sure i did--to develop this, it detects and catalogs all your"twilight zone,"ray bradbury,"friday the 13th"the series voodoo crap magic, i thought you might want it so you didn't accidentally sell anybody, say, a typewriter that generates best-selling murder mysteries and then makes the murders happen in real life? ooh, 
mr needful: be quite, 
rick: don't you want to make sure people know what they're getting? you're not intentionally selling, beauty cream that makes ugly ladies pretty but also makes them blind? 
mr needful: i find this all quite preposterous, 
rick: oh, i say, good sir, oh, harrumph, oh, oh 
[babbles ] 
customer: that's beautiful, 
rick: you know it's gonna be wearing you in three hours? 
mr needful: do i need to call the police? 
rick: here, you can use my phone, don't worry, it won't make you deaf because i'm not a hack, you think you're[bleep] so great, you stupid piece of[bleep] shit, 
summer: stop! hey! stop it right now! grandpa rick, i like working here, 
rick: you work for the devil, 
summer: so what? 
both:"so what?" 
summer: yes, so what if he's the devil, rick? at least the devil has a job, at least he's active in the community, what do you do? you eat our food and make gadgets, buh-bye, 
rick: whoops, 
[ giggles ] 
summer: i'm sorry, mr, needful, i'll clean that up, i don't know what i can do about the ghost lady-that came out of it, but-- 
mr needful: it's fine, summer, you know, your grandfather's right, this store curses people, that's my business, 
summer: well, yeah, fast-food gives people diabetes, and clothing stores have sweatshops, is there a company hiring teenagers that isn't evil? this is my first job, you've been nice to me, mr, needful, you respect me, 
mr needful: please, call me"the devil," 
summer: i'd rather not 
mr needful: yes, perhaps not during business hours, 
jerry: i told you, i want to file a declaration that pluto is a planet, well, then my son's going to fail his science class, and when that happens, i'm suing you first, i think i know what the"a"in nasa stands for, 
morty: dad, what's your endgame? 
jerry: ain't no game, sucka, 
morty: why don't we just make the solar system with eight planets? it's even easier, 
jerry: sure, sure, and why don't we just burn galileo at the stake for saying the sun is round? science isn't always easy, morty, 
jerry: whoa! 
morty: whoa! 
jerry: what the hell?! 
[ both groaning ] [ ting! ] [ hisses, buzzes ] 
king flippy nips: i'm king flippy nips, ruler of pluto, we discovered you quite by accident during routine surveillance of your world, you really gave it to those guys at nasa, 
jerry: i was--you know, sometimes science is about conviction, king flippy nips it'd like to introduce you to a few people that very much agree with you, 
jerry: oh, i... 
king flippy nips: plutonians, jerry smith is a scientist from earth, where he's creating a model of our solar system, jerry, tell pluto about your decision, 
jerry:[clears throat] um... pluto's a planet, 
[ cheers and applause ] 
jerry: pluto's a[bleep] planet, bitch! 
morty: oh, man, this is definitely gonna go to his head, 
mr needful: if it's athletic prize you desire, principal vagina, i might--principal vagina i'll take it, 
mr needful: b-but i haven't even-- 
principal vagina: thank you very, very much, great store, great place, bye, 
mr needful: huh, okay, i must say, summer, i thought your grandfather's outburst would have disrupted business, but this is the best weekend i've had since salem, 
summer: nice,"wholesome delight"for lunch? 
mr needful: is that the vegan place? 
summer: yeah, i love their soup, 
mr needful: i'm kind of soup-ed out, mrs. tate, is it? what do you desire? whoa, whoa, slow down, honey, 
mrs tate: oh, is there a limit? everything's free, right? 
summer: let's just say you don't pay, with money, 
[ both chuckle ] 
mr needful: that was perfect, 
mrs tate: you pay with the curses, right? 
mr needful: um... i--well... but, mrs. tate, why do you want cursed items? 
mrs tate: well, i'm going to get the curses removed at"curse purge plus,"you know, the guy on tv? 
[ door closes ] 
mr needful: what? 
rick: have you acquired creepy specific old stuff from a mysterious antique or thrift store that gives you powers but[bleep] with you in unforeseeable ways? bring it to"curse purge plus,"i use science to un-curse the items for cash, and you get to keep the powers, this guy got mysterious sneakers to make him run faster, but guess what? he would have had to run until he died, making them worthless, i removed the curse, making them worth, like, i don't know, 8 million, see you at the olympics, this eerily intelligent doll was threatening to murder its family, now it does their taxes, everything's deductible, don't pay for cool stuff with your soul, pay for it with money, you know, like how every other store in the world works? we're located at first and main in old town, come on--come on down,"first and",[babbles]"needful things,"where you can get evil items for free! 
mr needful: diabolic son of a motherf-- 
plutonian interviewer: we're back on"good morning, pluto,"and a very good morning it is for our guest, earth scientist jerry smith, who's making headlines with his bold announcement that is what, jerry? 
jerry: pluto is a planet, 
plutonian interviewer: well, how about that, i love it, 
scroopy noopers: morty smith, i'm scroopy noopers, i'm a scientist, can i show you something? 
morty: uh, i better not, right now, 
[ blurp! ] 
scroopy noopers: the center of pluto, mr, smith, is made of a substance called"plutonium,"mines like these suck plutonium up to the cities, where corporations use it to power everything, from diamond cars to golden showers, and the more we remove, the more pluto shrinks,[rumbles] there it goes again, just shrank a little, but a few years ago, your scientists noticed pluto had gotten so small they couldn't even call it a"planet"anymore, should've been our wake-up call, but the rich plutonians won't wake up, and they love your dad telling everyone pluto's a planet because that means they can keep mining until pluto goes from planet to asteroid to meteor, and finally[blows] 
morty: um, a party? 
scroopy noopers: is everyone in your family an idiot? 
morty: well, for sure me and my dad are, 
scroopy noopers: well, all you have to do is get him to admit that, and you could save four billion lives, 
morty: yeah, you know, the thing is my dad's really insecure, 
summer: hmm, funny, mr, needful, out of everything in the store, you'll never guess what we couldn't get rid of, 
[ sputtering ] 
summer: oh, my god, 
[ grunting ] 
summer: oh, my god, i wish this desk was lighter, i wish this knot was looser, 
[ grunts ] 
summer: come on,[blows] 
summer: i don't--wait, what am i doing? i wish i knew cpr, 
[ chokes, sputters ] 
mr needful: oh, jesus, what a waste of a monkey paw, 
summer: mr, needful, how could you even think of doing something so horrible? 
mr needful: i'm the devil, what should i do when i fail--get myself an ice cream? 
summer: you haven't failed, 
mr needful: people like rick are making me obsolete, i mean, seriously, i may be"the devil,"but your grandpa is the devil, i just want to go back to hell, where everyone thinks i'm smart and funny, 
summer: no! it's not fair, everyone in this town got something they wanted from you--even rick, i was your only friend, and i get nothing? 
mr needful: okay, i'll give you one thing, name it, 
summer: i want to help you, 
mr needful: clever twist, 
summer: i learned from the best, you old fart, now, let's go get you hydrated, 
rick: looks like we've got, haunted boxing gloves that will make you the heavyweight champion in 1936, and then you'll be trapped there, winning the same fight for eternity, i can take out the"eternity"and the padding, and then you'll have some time-traveling mittens, oh, look, it's rosemary's baby, how's business? 
summer: here's the last of our inventory, we're going to file chapter 11 and do some restructuring, 
rick: sounds like code for"you win, rick," 
summer: that was important to you, wasn't it? 
rick: nope, it was important to your dumb devil friend, to me, this was all just a bit, like when bugs bunny[bleep] with the opera singer for 20 minutes, 
summer: he tried to kill himself, 
rick: seriously? holy crap, holy crap, 
summer: but you know what, grandpa rick? he's strong, and he's never going to give up, 
rick: uh-huh, yeah, i don't care, 
summer: oh, i know, everyone knows you don't care, 
rick: so? 
summer: so have fun not caring, 
rick: i always do, 
summer: good, 
rick: yeah, it is good, it's the best, 
summer: i'm sure it is, bye, 
rick: later, 
customer: i'm here to pick up my undead cat and child, 
rick: yeah, uh... give me a sec, 
employee: these are the forms for the employee health plan, 
rick: all right, yeah, put--put them on my, eh, i just got bored, everybody out, 
jerry: all right, just one more rally, then i promise we'll get back to your science project, 
morty: dad, pluto isn't a planet, it's shrinking because of corporations, 
jerry: yeah, that's what that anti-planet nut job scroopy noopers was screaming about outside the ministry of money's fundraiser, are you telling me four billion plutonians are wrong? 
morty: you said science wasn't easy, 
jerry: i said science isn't always easy, obviously, that means sometimes it is easy, let's not debase ourselves with word games, son, 
morty: dad, their whole planet is dying, 
jerry: ha! you called it a planet, checkmate, 
king flippy nips: what's up, pluto?[cheers and applause][classical music plays] mr, smith, please tell my friend here what you just told me, go on, 
jerry: my very eager mother just served us nine pickles, and the "pickles" is pluto, plutonian my god, the man's a genius,
morty: um, excuse me, 
jerry: morty, what? 
morty: dad, what did you think about the recent report published by the pluto science reader linking pluto-quakes, sinkholes, and surface shrinkage to deep-core plutonium drilling? 
jerry: well, son, what did you think when you were 5 and you pooped your pants, and you threw your poopy undies out your bedroom window because you thought it was like throwing something in the garbage?[laughter] i mean, i'm trimming the hedges, and these things are just hanging there, was i supposed to think the poop bunny left them? 
morty: good one, dad, 
rick: hey, morty, you want to go on a, oh, hey, beth, hello? hey, jerry, you in here being stupid? 
[ sighs, burps ] [ robot whirs ] 
rick: thanks, hey, you know, i was thinking, you know, i might watch a movie, 
robot: i am not programmed for friendship, 
rick: suit yourself,[burps][hums] hey, hey, w-w-what's going on? 
morty: um, listen, can you help me do the stupid science fair project? 
rick: whatever, 
king flippy nips: jerry, you must be so excited, the pluto-bel prize is the highest honor a scientist can receive, 
jerry: i'm flattered and humbled, 
king flippy nips: oh, i like that, use that in your speech, also, talk about pluto being a planet, people like that, 
plutonian guard: your highness, we've captured scroopy noopers, 
scroopy noopers: you animals! animals! 
king flippy nips: ooh, look who's little journey's come to an end, take him to pluto-namo bay, 
scroopy noopers: you can't kill the truth, father, 
jerry: what? 
king flippy nips: i can see you're confused, pluto-namo bay is a military prison--a sort of play on words, 
jerry: did he call you"father"? scroopy noopers, the anti-planet nut job, is your son? 
king flippy nips: the young eat the old if you let them, jerry, pluto is a cold, cold celestial dwarf, jerry it's a what? 
king flippy nips: huh? oh, planet,[laughs]"pluto is a cold, cold planet,"that's what i meant, knock them dead out there, you, 
jerry: pluto is...[sighs] not a planet, 
[ shouting ] 
jerry: ow! it's not a planet, hey! it's not a planet! i'm an idiot, and i love my son, 
mr needful: it was a long six hours, but we've overhauled"needful things"into the globally-compliant web 4, 0"e-nomenon,"n33dful, com, spelled with threes instead of"e's," 
[ cheering ] 
mr needful: okay, that's it, we just got bought by google! 
summer: mm, i'm so proud of you, lucius, so, how much did we make? 
[ chuckling ] 
mr needful:"we,"this is my business, security! 
summer: you're zuckerberg-ing me? 
mr needful: i was zuckerberg-ing people before zuckerberg's balls dropped, i'm the devil, bitch! 
summer: what, what?! 
[ fiddle plays ] 
jerry: hey! 
groans jerry: hey, morty, 
morty: oh, oh, hey, dad, um, what--what are you doing back from pluto so quick? 
jerry: uh, some people just can't handle the truth, especially dummies like me, morty, i'm not as smart as your grandpa rick, but i promise never to make that your problem again, 
morty: hey, dad, nobody's smarter than rick, but nobody else is my dad, you're a genius at that, 
jerry: wow, that's... humbling and flattering, son, thank you, let's say we finish ourselves an eight-planet solar system? 
morty: um... i'm just gonna take this thing in and get an"a", 
robot: butter, 
morty: you're a genius at being my dad, dad, quit while you're ahead, and also, knock next time, you know? i mean, i'm sitting in here, i'm 14--i got a computer in here, you know? 
jerry: oh, i--i think i understand, 
morty: you're really playing with fire when you burst in here like that, man, 
jerry: i get it, say no more, 
morty: i mean, one of these days, you know, you're gonna end up seeing something, 
jerry: i got it! noted, good night, 
[ metal music playing ] 
rick: how's your pretend grandpa doing, aka"the devil"? 
summer: he dumped me, 
rick: oof, sorry, 
summer: did we learn a lesson here i'm not seeing? 
rick: not sure, 
summer: maybe in a much bigger way, mr, needful gave us both what we really wanted? because i was always jealous of you hanging out with morty, and you didn't realize how much you valued my approval? 
rick: no, that's dumb, 
summer: yeah, not satisfying, 
rick: i'll tell you what, though, if--if--if it's satisfaction you're after, i think i might have an idea, 
summer: uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh, totally, let's do it!
♪ x gonna give it to ya ♪
♪ wait for you to get it on your own ♪
♪ x gonna deliver to ya ♪ 
♪ knock knock, open up the door, it's real ♪
♪ with the non-stop pop pop and stainless steel ♪
♪ go hard, getting busy with it ♪
♪ but i got such a good heart ♪
♪ that i'll make the mother wonder if he did it ♪
♪ damn right, and i'll do it again ♪
♪ 'cause i am right so i gots to win ♪
♪ break bread with the enemy ♪
♪ but no matter how many cats i break bread with ♪
♪ i'll break who you ♪
mr needful: and that's how i took my storefront into the forefront of the up front, thank you, seattle, 
[ cheers and applause ] 
mr needful: rick? summer? 
[ audience groans ] 
rick: stupid mother[bleep] 
summer: you stupid bitch, 
rick: stupid mother[bleep] how do you like that? how do you like that? 
summer:[grunts][groans] 
mr needful: w-w-why? 
summer: because sometimes what you really need is for someone else to pay a horrible price, 
[ whimpers ] 
summer:[spits] 
rick: we did it, 
summer: yeah, bro, 
rick: it was totally worth it, we did it, we just pulled it off, 
summer: yeah, bro, yeah, 
♪ bitch, please if the only thing you cats did ♪
♪ was came out to play ♪
♪ stay out my way, mother ♪
♪ first we gonna rock, then we gonna roll ♪
♪ then we let it pop, don't let it go ♪
♪ x gonna give it to ya he gonna give it to ya ♪
♪ x gonna give it to ya he gonna give it to ya ♪
♪ first we gonna rock, then we gonna roll ♪
♪ then we let it pop, don't let it go ♪
♪ x gonna give it to ya, he gonna give it to ya ♪
♪ x gonna give it to ya, he gonna give it to ya ♪
♪ ain't never gave nothing to me ♪
[walking away from egan cinema]
morty: geez, i can't believe we found a version of earth with a ball fondlers movie franchise. 
summer: i can't believe the things this reality considers pg-13 
morty: yeah, i'm pretty jealous. 
rick: don't be morty, there are pros and cons to every reality, fun facts about this one; it's got giant telepathic spiders, eleven 9 11's, aaaand the best ice cream in the multiverse! 
summer: shut up! morty w-whoa! 
rick: we're gonna go get some ice-cream motherfuckers! 
car does not start rick: oh great. 
morty: oh boy. w-what's wrong rick, is it the quantum carburettor or something? 
rick: quantum carburettor? jesus morty; you can't just add a sci fi word to a car word and hope it means something. huh, it looks like something's wrong with the microverse battery-we're going to have to go inside. 
morty: uhm. go inside what? 
rick: the battery morty. be right back summer; stay put, don't touch any buttons, and ignore all random thoughts that feel--spider-y. 
summer: wait! you can't leave me here! 
rick: you'll be fine. ship, keep summer safe. 
ship: keep. summer. safe. 
summer: egh, wonderful. 
[man with scar across his face and a ponytail approaches the car]
man: hey, excuse me, hello? 
summer: uhmm... 
man: what you think you're better than me? nobody's better than me! ey! ey! (he is banging on the ship's window)
(the ship extends an arm from the back and cuts him into cubes with a laser)
summer: agh! aghaaaa! 
ship: keep. summer. safe. 
thinner man: hey man, what the hell! that was my daughter's paediatrician! uagha! 
(the ship lifts him off the ground with an arm and prepares to kill him with another)
summer: no! stop, don't kill him! 
ship: confirmed. 
(ship fires a single red laser into his back, and drops him to the ground)
thinner man: uaghuu. ugh. uh. oh god! i can't feel my legs! help! he-elp! 
ship: summer is safe. 
(summer curls into fetal position and starts crying)
summer: i don't feel safe. 
ship: confirmed. 
(ship reclines chair and begins playing soothing music)
(the now paralysed man bangs on the door while crying)
thinner man: oh god help me! help me! help me please! you can help me. 
[intro plays]
morty: oh man. where are we rick? 
rick: morty, remember eight seconds ago when-burp-when you said'go inside what'and i said'the battery'and then we showed up here 
jerry: the trick to cereal is keeping 70 above the milk, 
beth: jerry, get a job, 
[ knock on door ] 
rick: uh, w-why don't you get it, jerry? you're the man of the house, and you don't have a job, 
jerry:[sighs] 
courier flap: delivery for rick, morty, summer, beth, and jerry, 
summer: gross, what is that thing? 
rick: it's a courier flap, it's like the intergalactic version of ups but less off-putting, oh, shiiit! it looks like an egg-vite from birdperson, must be time for his annual oscar party, and, by the way, our tv signals take light years to reach his planet, nobody tell him that"braveheart"wins, 
[ music plays ] 
birdperson: greetings, this is birdperson, 
tammy: and tammy! 
birdperson: inviting you to planet squanch for our mate-melding ceremony-- 
rick: blugh! 
[ muffled ] 
tammy: if you're from earth, that means we're getting married! 
summer: oh, my god! my friend tammy's marrying birdperson! 
jerry: what the hell is a birdperson?
morty: he's rick's best friend, 
rick: uh, l-let's not get carried away, morty, 
courier flap: would you like to rsvp or send a gift? 
rick: no, weddings are basically funerals with cake, if i wanted to watch someone throw their life away,[burps] i'd hang out with jerry all day, 
courier flap: affirmative! returning to sender, 
beth: no, hold on, stay, courier flaps, 
courier flap: staying! 
beth: dad, you have a friend that's getting married, that's a big deal, 
jerry: it's a big deal he has a friend, 
rick: what do you know about friendship, jerry? 
courier flap: confirmed, shipping jerry, 
[ muffled ] 
jerry: whoa, whoa, wait! aah! 
beth: oh, god! jerry! 
summer: dad! dad! 
beth: where is it taking him? 
rick: i assume planet squanch--6, 000 light years across the galaxy, 
morty: whoa, t-that's--that's insane! 
rick: yeah, i know, now we have to go to the wedding, 
[ upbeat music playin ] [ bottles rattling ] 
squanchy: rick sanchez! you psycho bag of squanch! 
rick: hey, what's up, squanchy? summer and morty hey, squanchy, 
squanchy: morty, summer! and you must be beth, mwah! ensquanche! 
beth: you're language has the word"squanch"in it a lot, doesn't that become tedious and worn out, like the smurf thing? 
rick: beth, squanchy culture is more contextual than literal, you just say what's in your squanch and people understand, 
beth: oh, okay, i squanch my family, 
squanchy: uh... 
beth: what, i do, i squanch my family, 
squanchy: stop saying it, gross, come on in, guys, the guest are having cocksquanches, 
jerry:[groaning][gasps] where am i?! 
beth: you're at a wedding, go change, 
singer:♪ and i'm an alien with jazz rap style♪♪ jazz rapping for an alien mile♪♪ fat beats and an alien smile♪ jazz space phone, alien dial is my friend♪♪ i got a mouthful of jazz for your ass♪[crying]♪ and i'm gonna keep jazzing[both squealing] 
tammy: oh, you made it! 
summer: i wouldn't it for the world! oh, my god, i love your ring, 
tammy: thanks, it was birdperson's grandmother's, she fought a squirrel for it, 
morty: birdperson, 
birdperson: rick, i am pleased you and your family could witness my melding with tammy, 
beth: our pleasure, 
rick: yeah, i just hope you got a pre-meld, 
morty: rick! 
rick: what?! it's just a practical way of making sure that when she's done with you, you can get one of your balls back, 
beth: jesus, dad, 
morty: he's just grumpy from the flight, 
rick: ohh, i-i was happy on the flight, i'm grumpy from the landing, 
jerry:[sighs] well, i looked at the guest book, we don't know a damn person here, hi! jerry smith--father of the bride's friend, advertising is my usual game, but i'm between-- 
beth: jerry, stop networking, we're in space, 
jerry: "jerry, get a job! jerry, don't look for a job at an alien wedding!" i don't get you.
beth: this is the closest i've ever gotten to this part of my father's life, i don't want to blow it, 
jerry: okay, i get it, i'm cramping your style, 
beth: you say you get it, but i'm scared you'll keep doing it, look, here's some humans you can practice on, 
pat: you must be summer's mom and dad, 
donna: we're tammy's parents--pat and donna guterman, beth hi, beth, this is jerry, 
jerry: so you're teenage daughter's marrying a birdman, are you guys down with that?[chuckles] no pun intended, 
donna: we're quite proud, 
pat: he's a wonderful person and an incredible bird, 
jerry: still, what is he, 40?[chuckles] it's just, you know, when he was 30, she was an actual child, when he was her age, she wasn't born, when he was, let's see, like, 18, she was literally in there in your womb, imagine being pregnant with your daughter and a bird teenager comes into your home and says,"i'll take that, i'll have sex with that," 
[ both chuckle ] 
beth: give us one second, 
jerry: oof! 
beth: were you born with your feet in your mouth? 
jerry: i was transported here against my will in a meatball, all right? so take your attitude to the men's section of kmart,'cause you need to cut me some slack... s, 
beth: i want you to stand in the corner and face the corner and talk to nobody, 
jerry: maybe.... i... will, 
morty: you know, you're not being very supportive of birdperson on his big day, 
rick: birdperson's big day, morty, was at blood ridge on glapflap's third moon against the gromflamites! this? this is a losing battle, 
morty: geez, rick, it's not like he's dying, he's getting married! i mean, what do you think's gonna happen if you open yourself up a little bit? i mean, look around, this is your family and friends all around you, you know? take the day off, there's nothing to run from, nothing to fight, 
tammy:[whistles] that's his last name, 
summer: are you hyphenating it? 
jerry: squanch this, mo-fo,[both laugh] 
rick: good one, morty, excuse me, bartender, can you make me a dumb grandson pep talk? it's one part lame advice about stuff you know nothing about and a lot of vodka, 
bartender: mm-hmm, i have a lot of vodka, 
rick: then i'll take one of those, i don't need the rest, 
morty: god, whatever, rick, 
beth: oh, it sounds like you and my dad have a long history together, wish i could say the same, 
birdperson: the road your father and i walked together is soaked deeply with the blood of both friends and enemies, 
beth: must be nice, um, i used to have to draw him into family photos with a crayon, 
birdperson: the war in which we fought is far from over, we live our lives in hiding, 
beth: i guess i should be happy for you, i mean, great, you guys got to hang out, i hope you had a blast, 
birdperson: the galactic government considers us terrorists, it's unwise of me to share these details, but i've become inebriated, 
beth: i don't know if you can appreciate what it means to grow up without a father, but-- 
birdperson: the guest list at this wedding includes 17 of the federation's most wanted, we have committed numerous atrocities in the name of freedom, 
beth: annnd during that time, i don't suppose he ever mentioned his daughter, are those baby quiches? 
birdperson: night crawler pate, i should prepare for the ceremony, 
beth: like talking to a brick wall, 
[ squawking ] 
squanchy: in the name of the squanch, the six rivers, the four squanches, and the nine balls, i unite these two organisms in eternal squanch! tammy, you may squanch your vows now, 
tammy: birdperson...[inhales sharply] you are my seed, my worm, my earliness, and my lack of cats, i promise to be yours until your death, 
squanchy: nice! 
all: aww! 
squanchy: birdperson, 
birdperson: tammy, i was approaching infertility when i met you, but there is still time, i am yours until my death, 
all: aww! 
rick:[burping] 
beth: aww, 
squanchy: i now pronounce you squanch and birdperson! 
[ cheers and applause and profane kissing ] ♪ girl, you got it going on [ children laughing ] 
photographer:[monotone] i am not staring at you, i am a cyborg photographer, just act natural, this is a candid shot, i don't require a camera so--sorry, hi, i am not staring at you, 
[ screams ] [ clinking ] 
rick: uh, hi, everybody, i'm ri[burps] ck, you know, when i first met birdperson, he was, uhh... listen, i'm not the nicest guy in the universe because i'm the smartest, and being nice is something stupid people do to hedge their bets, now, i haven't been exactly subtle about how little i trust marriage, i couldn't make it work, and i could turn a black hole into a sun, so at a certain point, you got to ask yourself what are the odds this is legit and not just some big lie we're all telling ourselves because we're afraid to die alone? because, you know, that's exactly how we all die--alone, 
morty: oh, boy, 
beth: oh, dad, 
jerry: jesus, 
rick: but--but... here's the thing, birdperson is my best friend, and if he loves tammy, well, then i love tammy, too, 
[ cheers and applause ] 
rick: to friendship, to love, and to my greatest adventure yet--opening myself up to others, 
summer: hear, hear! 
jerry: cheers! 
morty: cheers to that, mother[bleep] 
tammy: thank you, rick, that was beautiful, gosh, i look around this room, and i think,"uh, tammy, you're a high-school senior from the planet earth, and you're marrying a 40-year-old birdperson? like, what?!" 
[ laughter ] 
summer: yeah, tammy! 
tammy: but then i think, you know, in a lot of ways, i'm not a high-school senior from the planet earth, in a lot of ways, what i really am is a deep-cover agent for the galactic federation, and you guys are a group of wanted criminals, and this entire building is, in a certain sense, surrounded, 
[ all murmur ] 
rick: oh, shit, 
beth: i... don't get the metaphor, 
jerry: i'll explain it to you later, 
tammy: everyone here is under arrest for crimes against the federation, 
cyborg: l'chaim! 
birdperson: tammy, what are you doing? 
tammy: sit your bird ass down, 
birdperson: tammy?[cawing weakly] 
rick: birdperson!! no!! 
[ screaming ] 
jerry: holy--[beep] 
tammy: drop the portal gun, slide it to the center of the room, 
[ beeping ] 
tammy: somebody confiscate that and don't damage it, they'll want it at-- 
[ whooshing ] [ high-pitched ringing and muffled background ] 
rick:[sighs, roars] 
squanchy: there's no time to squanch! get your family out of here! i got this, [gulps] [roaring] [deep voice] how about a taste of my squanch?! [growling] 
rick: come on, this way! 
squanchy: squanch this! 
[ engine turns over ] 
jerry: good thing i grabbed a space weapon, 
rick: that's a confetti gun, you[bleep] idiot! 
beth: dad! 
rick: hold on tight! 
aaah!! aaaah!! [ sirens wailing ] 
rick: god damn it! god damn it!! what the hell happened back there?! this is on you guys, i told you weddings are stupid, 
jerry: uh, rick, is there anything you'd like to tell us about your relationship with this previously unknown galactic government? 
rick: all the important points seem pretty clear, no? they think they control the galaxy, i disagree, don't hate the player, hate the game, son, 
jerry: how could you be so dishonest with this family? 
rick: oh! oh, should i have been more open and trusting and loving like, oh, i don't know, my now dead best friend? or your daughter, who is bffs with an intergalactic narc? 
summer: hey, tammy was cool! 
rick: and now we know why, 
summer: because of you! 
rick: [bleep] you, summer, and [bleep] the government, and [bleep] me for letting my guard down, which i will never do again, 
morty: geez, rick! you can't say f-- "'f' you" to your granddaughter.
rick: i just did, morty, here's dessert, [bleep] you, 
beth: look, i think we've all had a tough wedding, actually, the wedding was beautiful, the reception got out of hand, anyway, i say we go home, sleep it off, and have a family meeting in the morning, 
rick: yeah, about going home, we can't--ever, 
all: what?! 
rick: oh, these guys are looking for us now, earth will be swarming with them, 
jerry: us?! 
beth: jerry--i want to go home! 
rick: look, anyone that wants to go back to earth is free to go back to earth, but here's what's gonna happen, aliens bureaucrats are gonna arrest you, they're gonna put the intergalactic equivalent of[burps] jumper cables under your nuts and or labia and hook them up to an alien car battery until you tell them where i am--which i guarantee you, you're not gonna know, which i guarantee they won't believe, so who's homesick? by applause, 
summer:[sobbing] 
rick: ladies? anybody? 
summer: what are we going to do? where are we going to live? 
rick: take it easy, this is a blessing in disguise,[bleep] earth, you realize our planet's name means dirt, right? we'll find a new world, computer, how many planets in the milky way are at least 90 similar to earth? 
[ beeping ] 
woman: 765 known planets, 
rick: how many of those are outside federal jurisdiction? 
[ beeping ] 
woman: three, 
rick: see? our cup runneth over, now, who wants to go shopping for a brand-new mother[bleep] world?! all right! look at this baby! would you even know that wasn't earth? 
morty: yes, because there's no africa, 
rick: pssh, white-people problems, morty, let's go down and check her out, 
[ thud, water splashing ] 
rick: oh, i thought it was further away, i uh... i guess this one's a little small, all right, uh, maybe--maybe we should go check out the other two, huh? okay, this one's bigger, 
beth: this looks nice, 
summer: mom, dad, look! strawberries on a cob![munching] 
morty: whoa! hey, check this out! flowers on a cob![laughs] 
jerry: huh, strawberries and flowers on a cob, huh? that's pretty cool, beth are those... mountains on a cob? 
[ birds cawing ] 
rick: oh, my god, get in the ship, sweetie, what? get in the god[bleep] ship!! everything's on a cob!! the whole planet's on a cob!! go, go, go!! 
[ engine turns over ] 
rick:[burps] all right, third time's the charm, see what we got here, 
beth: seems good, 
jerry: and nothing on the cob, didn't know that was a necessity, but... 
rick: no, it's nice, i think this might be it, 
morty: wow! hey, look, you guys, the sun's rising, 
sun: aaaaaaaaaaaaah!! 
beth: uh, dad, how long are the days on this planet? 
rick: uh, computer, how long are the days on this planet? 
sun:[screaming continues] 
computer: 42 hours, 
rick: all right, well, those are the two choices,'cause cob planet is off the table, now let's take a vote, 
man: well, it's official, the obscure planet known as earth, formerly the hiding place of interstellar terrorist and fugitive rick sanchez, has just become the 6, 048th planet to join the galactic federation, 
woman: the plucky little ball of water and dirt, which is where it gets its name, is dominated by seven billion primate-descended natives who love to eat spaghetti and pray to kangaroos, spaghetti, kangaroos? i've got to check this place out, 
[ both laugh ] 
man: well, you can, contact the ministry of tourism for details, up next, teenagers are calling it[growls and squeal] and it's not what you think, 
morty: what are you--what did you do that for? 
summer: dramatic effect, 
rick: good morning, family, oh, do i smell bacon? 
beth: yes, we discovered a species of tiny pig off the coast of new australia about 30 yards east, 
morty: or 300 yards west, 
summer: we'd offer you some, but we hunted it to extinction for breakfast, 
rick: well, i thought i'd walk to the south pole and do a little bit of exploring, if you guys need me, just yell or throw something so hard that it goes around the world and hits me, 
[ door shuts ] 
jerry: okay, now that he's gone, can we please talk about our situation? 
morty: dad, you can't talk about people behind their back, you know, it's a small world, 
jerry: please, he's in the south pole! and we need to have a serious conversation, 
[ insects chirping ] [ thunder rumbles ] [ wind howling ] 
rick: south pole discovered, baby! ohhhh! oh[bleep] an ice cave?[bleep] things just keep on getting better, wow, it's the planet's core, 
jerry: i'm just saying, we keep acting like there's only two options, but there's not, so, yes, if we went back to earth, as long as rick was out there, they'd want to interrogate us, but, and this is purely hypothetical, what if we turned your father in to the government? 
beth: jerry, so help me god, if you ever bring this up again, no more bacon, 
jerry: there already is no more bacon! this world sucks! our life sucks! why are we doing this for someone that would never do anything for anyone but himself? 
morty: that's not the point, dad! we love rick... f-for the most part, 
summer: yeah, you don't love people in hopes of a reward, dad, you love them unconditionally, 
beth: that's very good, kids, i'm proud of you, 
jerry: okay, so let me get this straight, for the rest of your lives, no matter how much it hurts you, no matter how much it destroys our children's futures, we're gonna do whatever rick wants, whenever he wants? 
all: yes, 
jerry: why?! 
beth: because i don't want him to leave again, you dumb asshole!! 
rick: hey, uh... i was gonna hope over to the gloppydrop system, get some ice cream, 
morty: you--you want me to come with? i mean, don't you need my brain waves for camouflage or something? 
rick: i'll be okay, bye, morty, 
morty: rick? you're not leaving, right? 
rick: yeah, i am, to get ice cream, 
morty: so, you're coming back? 
rick: morty, if you go to where there's a bunch of ice cream and then you don't come back, you haven't actually gotten ice cream, you've just gone where ice cream is, 
morty: rick, i can handle it if you go, but you'll break mom's heart, and i won't forgive you for that, 
rick: where's the van, morty? 
morty: it's over the horizon in the driveway, 
[ engine turns over ] ♪ i hurt myself today 
[ dialing ] [ woman speaking gibberish ] for english, press 2, [ bee ] connecting to agent, 
woman: ongoing investigations, 
rick: uh, hi, my name is jerry smith, i'm from planet earth, i know the whereabouts of rick sanchez, the wanted criminal, 
woman: hold on! 
[ ringing ] 
agent gribbles: this is special agent gribbles, you have a tip about rick sanchez? 
rick: yeah, he kidnapped me and my family, and he left us on dwarf terrace-9, he said he was gonna go to the plimplom tavern, and listen, 
agent gribbles: yes? 
rick: i'm doing what's right for the galaxy by calling you, so if we come back to earth, can my family have a normal life? 
agent gribbles: we only want sanchez, sir, your family will be fine, 
jerry: nice, thank you, i'm jerry smith, and i love sucking big, sweaty[bleep] and licking disgusting furry testicle sacks, 
agent gribbles: uh... okay, 
♪ what have i become ♪ 
♪ my sweetest friend ♪ 
♪ everyone i know ♪ 
♪ goes away in the end ♪ 
♪ you could have it all ♪
beth: he's not coming back, is he? 
morty: no. 
♪ my empire of dirt ♪
jerry: hey, look, cops, 
♪ i will you down ♪
galactic police officer: good morning, 
♪ i will make you hurt ♪
customs agent: how long will you be visiting earth? 
jerry: oh, we live here, we were just off-planet for a wedding, customs agent go that way, 
[ tires screech, beeping ] 
robot: i have processed that you are in in distress and have proscribed antidepressants, compliments of the galactic federation, 
jerry: i feel better, 
robot: your debt is 7, 000 fed credits, report to the ministry of employment and you will be assigned a function, 
jerry: honey! i got a job! 
♪ you could have it all ♪ 
cyborg: sorry, i am not staring at you, i am taking your mug shot, 
♪ my empire of dirt ♪ 
♪ i will let you down ♪ 
♪ i will make you hurt ♪
criminal: hey, what are you in for? 
rick: everything, 
mr poopybutthole: hoo-whee, what a cliffhanger, oh, boy, oh, my! that's a real crazy ending, huh? hi, i'm mr, poopybutthole from episode 204,[groans] as you can see, i'm still recovering from the bullet shot that i got from beth, remember that one? ooh-whee! 
[ meowing ] 
mr poopybutthole: come and get it, kitty, you know, these little fellows help me get through the day,[gulping] ooh-whee, oh, whoo-whee! feels better, 
[ doorbell rings ] 
pizza delivery driver: i got a large pepperoni and some crazy sticks, mr. poopybutthole hey, what did you think of that finale, huh? mm! you think the smith family is gonna be okay? 
pizza delivery driver: yeah, i don't know what you're talking about, bro, your total is 12, 37, 
mr poopybutthole: whoo-whee! you think rick's gonna get out off jail? whoo-whee, you think the family's gonna rescue him? 
pizza delivery driver: hey, what the[bleep]?! get the[bleep] off me! 
mr poopybutthole:[laughing and saying"ooh-whee!"] ow! turn in to"rick and morty"season three in, like, a year and a half... or longer to see how we unravel this mess, ooh-whee! 
[door beeps] 
rick: don't worry about jerry, he's gonna be fine, you hear me, jerry? you're gonna be fine, 
morty: whoa! 
rick: ooh, watch out for that stuff, it'll stain if it gets on your clothes, and it'll send you into a murderous rage if it gets in your eyes and mouth, 
beth: why would you keep mutant bacteria in a pint of cherry garcia? 
rick: i know this isn't the time, but, you know, technically, the second freezer drawer is mine, 
beth: not anymore, 
rick: you're overreacting! 
nurse: we're losing him, 
rick: all right, fine, but you're not touching my crisper, 
summer: is he going to die? 
nurse: don't worry, dr, glip glop is the best in the galaxy, 
dr glip glop: hello, i'm dr, glip glop, 
morty: oh, my god! oh, my god! 
[ roars ] -aah! [ sizzling ] 
rick: what? every hospital claims to have the best doctor in the ga-[belches]-laxy, it's like those pizza places that claim to have the best pizza in the world, what do you think, they have pizza contests? have you ever been to a pizza contest? 
beth: go in the waiting room, dad, 
rick: fine! excuse me, coming through, what are you here for? just kidding, i don't care, well, this won't do, 
doctor: hey, what are you doing? 
rick: a sequel, 
doctor: i don't understand, 
rick: yeah, me, neither, we pretty much nailed it the first time, 
rapping indistinctl man: biatch![electricity crackling] 
tv: ooh! ooh! ow! 
randy:"man vs, car,"the newest hit show,-where it pits a man,-yeah!-... versus a car,[horn honks] on tonight's episode, michael jenkins fights a regular old car, here we go, oh, he's pushing his way through, he's trying to fight that car, but the car seems to have the upper hand, oh, he's got a little bit of pushback there, oh, no, he just got ran over and chewed up by the tires, i guess that's another one for the cars,[laughs] i mean, wouldn't the cars always win? 
eyehole person: samantha, i need to know, that you understand that i have a couple of eyeholes, 
samantha: i do, i do understand about your eyeholes, here, look at my eyeholes, 
eyehole person: oh, my god, you have eight eye ho--holes,[chuckles] ohh, i'm looking through your eyeholes, 
samantha: yes, look through my eyeholes,[moaning] 
eyehole man: i'm the eyehole, man, i'm the only one that's allowed to have eye holes, get up on out of here with my eyeholes, announcer eyeholes, get them today, ikea... 
rick: you got to be careful, morty, if that guy catches you with a box of his eyeholes, he comes bursting in through a window and just starts kicking the shit out of you, but it's worth the risk, they melt in your mouth, morty, they're delicious, 
beth: dad, i can't believe you're explaining alien cereal, we're worried about jerry, 
rick: well, you're 39 years too late, or, you know, however old he is, is he--is he 50? jesus christ, beth, is--is jerry 50? 
jerry: where am i? 
diplomat: relax, mr, smith, you're in an alien hospital, i mean, to you, it's an alien hospital, to me, you're just in a hospital, there's another matter we need to discuss with you, 
jerry: okay, 
diplomat: an hour ago, shrimply pibbles, the galaxy's most influential civil rights leader, was brought to this hospital's emergency room, where he is currently fighting for his life, 
jerry: my god, 
doctor: mr, smith, shrimply pibbles'life can be saved if we replace his heart with your human penis, 
jerry: i see, wait, what? 
doctor: it's perfect, the configuration of veins, the ratio of thickness to elasticity, the delicate asymmetry of what you call your balls, and with relatively few adjustments, your genitals can be molded into a functioning heart for the most important man in the universe, 
jerry: yeah, but--i mean-- 
diplomat: oh, forget it! i told you this was a waste of time! 
diplomat 2: have respect, yarp, the earth man's world is tiny and undeveloped, he knows nothing of the genocides of clorgon or the tragic events of 65, 3432, 23 14, 
shrimply pibbles: and even if he did, he wouldn't comprehend them, i've dwelt among the humans, their entire culture is built around their penises, it's funny to say they are small, it's funny to say they are big, i've been at parties where humans have held bottles, pencils, thermoses in front of themselves and called out,"hey, look at me, i'm mr, so-and-so-dick, i've got such-and-such for a penis,"i never saw it fail to get a laugh, 
jerry: all right! that's enough! you guys are talking about my species, we understand genocide, we do it sometimes, 
diplomat 2: then you would give your penis so that shrimply pibbles might live? 
diplomat: stop asking! 
jerry: yes, i will! that's right, assholes, take my penis, take it all! and tell shrimply pibbles that when the galaxy came calling, jerry smith from earth didn't flinch! 
rick:[laughs] hey, w-what's wrong, morty? oh, you're worried about your dad, huh? huh? 
morty: oh, no, no, no, i'm just--i'm just looking at that lady over there getting coffee, what's up with her face? is she human, or is she like worf? you know, worf from"star trek,"how he has all that shit all over his face, but he's just a human in a costume, you know? 
rick: morty, uh, let's see what else is on, huh? okay, 
host: and now we're back to"how did i get here?"the only show that makes you ask yourself,"how did i get here?"[chuckles] here's our first person, 
coffee lady: oh, oh, my god, how did i get here? hello?! how did i get here?! somebody, help me, please! host[laughs] all right! 
morty: holy crap! look, it's that lady with the shit on her face like worf from"star trek"that was getting coffee! how did she get there?! 
rick: oh, my god, morty, how did she get there? 
host: how did she get there?[laughs] 
beth: is that something we should be concerned about? 
rick: just stay away from the coffee machine, 
man: calling all jan michael vincents, calling all jan michael vincents, 
announcer: in a world where there's eight jan michael vincents 
man: we need one jan michael vincent to quadrant"c"we need two jan michael vincents to quadrant"e" 
announcer:... and 16 quadrants, there's only enough time for a jan michael vincent to make it to a quadrant, he can't be at two quadrants at once, 
morty: hey, rick, who--who is jan michael vincent? 
rick: oh, man, i'm trying to remember, morty, 
announcer: jan michael vincents are used up, 
man: i need a goddamn jan michael vincent, 
morty: is it important that we know who jan michael vincent was in order to get this? 
rick: nope, 
judge: i-i refuse to send the legislation that allows more than eight jan michael vincents to a precinct, 
announcer: this jan-uary, it's time to michael down your vincents,"jan quadrant vincent 16," 
morty: whoa! 
rick: whoa! that's jan michaels, 
morty: excuse me, nurse, can you take my temperature because i think i have jan quadrant vincent fever over here, 
rick: all right, morty! you've done it, 
doctor: so, we'll be detaching your sexual organ at the base by making incisions here, here, and here, 
jerry: got it, 
doctor: leaving a partial length of severed urethra to be threaded through-- 
jerry:[laughs] oh, you know what, i got to--i got to laugh at myself here, i'm having a little laugh at myself because i just realized i haven't run this whole decision past my wife, 
doctor: oh, do you think she'll be okay with this? 
jerry: oh, absolutely, beth's automatically on board always with every decision i make, 
stealy: hey, i'm stealy, follow me on my adventure through this office, all right, here we go, we're gonna just steal a couple of things, 
boss: excuse me, can i help you? 
stealy: starting with common office objects, 
boss: hey, hey, hey! that's my stuff! 
stealy: such as staplers and pins and all sorts of things like--such as that, 
boss: that's it, i'm calling security, 
stealy: no![muffled grunting] all right, okay, now we're in the quiet safe room where none of the people whose stuff i stole can get to us, now, let's look at all the stuff we got, we got a bag of bobbish, that's eight brapples, we got a plumbus, that's 6 1 2 brapples, we got, uh, a--crushed red party cups, 15 1 2 brapples,[ding! ding! ding! ding!] 
comedian: welcome back to"funny songs,"it's all improvised, it's very funny, i need a volunteer from the audience, 
volunteer: um, longtime fan of the show, uh-- 
comedian: what do you do? what's your profession? 
volunteer: i am a tax attorney, 
comedian: okay, here we go, hit--hit the music,♪ i'm a tax attorney♪ oh, geez, oh♪ forget about everybody else♪ forget about jesus christ♪ forget about muhammad♪ forget about, uh... all those religions♪♪ ba-da-ba-ba-da-ba-bop the end, 
volunteer: oh, my god, oh, that was so, so funny, thank you, 
comedian: you're welcome, hey, um, security guards, take him out, get him out of here, 
volunteer: what? 
comedian: get the orthodontist out of here, 
volunteer: no! why? 
[ glass shatters ] 
comedian: take him out of the audience, kill him, sic him, demons... suck his life out, i don't give a shit, 
doctor: smith family? 
beth: yes? 
doctor: i wanted to let you all know that jerry is doing just fine, 
rick: yay! called it! 
morty: yes! whoo-hoo! that's good news! 
doctor: but, uh, mrs, smith, could you come with me? 
jerry: hi, honey, so, here's the thing--these guys--they want to completely remove my penis and use it as an alien's heart, and we just need you to sign off on it, 
beth: what?! 
jerry: uh-oh, maybe we got a problem here after all, guys, yikes, 
doctor: his penis will be replaced with a sophisticated prosthetic, now, there's a wide range of options to choose from, they're all in this catalogue, 
beth: i don't care about prosthetics, this is insane, what do you people think you're doing? 
doctor: i understand your feelings, mrs, smith, 
beth: oh, i don't think you do, i bring my husband in for emergency treatment, he's gone an hour, and now you want his penis, and you hand me some... catalog, it's--it's--it's--it's--i mean... 
jerry: sheesh, well, there you go, sorry, i know it's hard to understand, but on earth, love comes first, 
doctor: there are those that believe, mr, smith, that shrimply pibbles represents love between all life, his fate will determine the fate of hundreds of billions of sentient life-forms, 
beth: whoa! whoa, so, billions of life-forms? 
doctor: hundreds of billions, 
beth: i mean, jerry, y-you didn't explain the full gravity of the situation, 
jerry: uh, well, beth, i don't think your decision should be based on politics, who could argue with a wife's decision to keep her lover intact? 
beth: well, i don't think that's fair at all, jerry, at all, in fact, the whole paradigm has sexist overtones, 
jerry: beth, can we talk about this privately, 
beth: you know, i think the bottom line is, jerry, if you want to keep your penis, you should say, out loud,"i prefer to keep my penis," 
jerry: but, beth, what kind of man would say something like that if the universe needed his penis?! 
beth: well, jerry, what kind of wife would i be if i did anything to stand in your way? 
man: hey, listen, is your mouth tiny and small? then why don't you come to lil'bits... lil'bits!... where the food is tiny, it looks like regular food, but really tiny, you can put it in your mouth and eat it, nothing gets stuck in your lips, it's just tiny and tiny and fits right---fits right in,-lil'bits! we got tiny lasagna, tiny pizza, tiny pie, mmm! little, tiny fried eggs, oh, shit, we got tiny people, lil'bits! you hungry? come on down, lil'bits, eat some[bleep] shit, you[bleep] stupid bitch,[chuckles] just kidding, 
doctor: you've got some time to kill before the procedure, so i assume you'd like to, uh, use your penis one last time, here's my computer, it's got the alien internet on it, here's some porn, and there's an alien towel, i actually got that on another planet, so it is an alien towel to me, good luck, 
jerry: thanks, 
[ door closes ] 
jerry:[sighs] what is this? hmm, hey, wait a minute, 
doctor: oh, uh, mr, smith? 
jerry: uh, yeah, just masturbating! 
doctor: i forgot to mention, there are extensive medical records open on my desktop, and i trust you to confine your activities to the purely pornographic, 
jerry: absolutely! 
doctor: good luck, 
[ clicks ] 
jerry: my god![chuckles] mr, pibbles, you just wrote my penis a one-way ticket to staying on my body town, 
announcer: it's the opposite news with michael thompson, michael thompson hey, everybody, it's me, michael thompson, today the pope didn't get killed, he's perfectly fine, and he's on vacation in aruba, in other opposite news, information 
morty: hey, rick, what's the deal with this guy? w-why is his body, like, sloping off to the right side of the screen like that? 
rick: i don't know, morty, see what else is on, huh? 
pichael thompson: hey, welcome to"cooking things,"i'm pichael thompson, 
morty: hey, wait a minute, rick, this guy's body is, like, sloping down and leaning off to screen left, 
rick: oh, my god, and his name's pichael, 
pichael thompson: i'm cooking a little bit of this, i'm gonna cook a little bit of that, oh, oh, hey! stop tugging, michael! 
morty: oh, my god! siamese twins! they're--they're siamese twins! 
michael thompson: you quit tugging, i-i'm in the middle of my news, 
pichael thompson: oh, oh, it's always about you, isn't it? can you believe this guy, ladies and gentlemen? he's got his own news show, he's got a normal name, 
morty: hey, flip back to the news, 
rick: oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, 
pichael thompson: you could tell our parents started with naming with him, it's like,"oh, michael,"they had that one planned before they even got pregnant, i bet, 
summer: i don't want to be that girl, but maybe there would be less conflict if they didn't shoot their shows at the same time, 
rick: oh, summer, you have no idea how much money that must save production, 
pichael thompson: and then they found out i was attached, along for the ride, and they said,"ah, shit, well, just[bleep] it, call him pichael," 
michael thompson:[bleep] you, pichael, you're a[bleep] piece of shit, 
[ camera shutters clicking ] 
diplomat 2: good afternoon, i know all of you are wondering about the condition of our dear, beloved pibbles, 
beth: which would you prefer between the xp-20 and the xp-20 xs? 
jerry: i prefer my own penis, and so should you! 
diplomat 2: the brave earth man whose sacrifice is going to allow shrimply pibbles to live--mr, jerry smith, 
[ cheers and applause ] 
jerry: hello, everyone! let's hear it again for shrimply pibbles, huh? he's a good guy, isn't he? i've only just been learning about his accomplishments, from his march on flirk blirk square to his ongoing battle with heroin dependency, he's the best, 
[ cheers and applause ] 
jerry: um, yeah, well, i-it occurs to me that his heroin addiction may not have been a matter of public record, 
reporter 1: you realize heroin makes up 10 of the atmosphere on shrimply pibbles'home planet, 
reporter 2: his planet was destroyed by clorgon death squads, he can't live outside of it without breathing heroin, 
jerry: right, i know that, i just think... 
crowd: this guy's trying to get out of giving away his penis![crowd shouting] 
narrator: today on"how they do it", plumbuses, everyone has a plumbus in their home, first, they take the dinglebop, and they smooth it out with a bunch of schleem, the schleem is then repurposed for later batches, they take the dinglebop, and they push it through the grumbo, where the fleeb is rubbed against it, it's important that the fleeb is rubbed because the fleeb has all of the fleeb juice, then a schlami shows up, and he rubs it and spits on it, they cut the fleeb, there's several hizards in the way, the blamfs rub against the chumbles, and the ploobis and grumbo are shaved away, that leaves you with a regular, old plumbus, 
rick: i always wondered how, uh, plumbuses got made, 
phillip jacobs: hey, welcome back to"personal space,"i'm your host phillip jacobs, and let me tell you, i care about my personal space, whoa, whoa, hey, who's around me right now? who's around me? now, why don't we step up here and everybody get stepped up and let's get some stepped-up personal space up in this place, here we go, we get a one, personal space, two, personal space, three, stay out of my personal space, four, keep away from my personal space, five... get out of that personal space, six... stay away from my personal space, seven... keep away from that personal space, eight, personal space, nine, personal space, you know, i take personal space pretty seriously, up to the point that i don't even care about this--i'm not even interested in having this skin on my personal space,[groans] 
summer: oh, my god! 
phillip jacobs: oh, it hurts! 
summer: gross! rick[laughs] what an asshole! 
phillip jacobs: ohh, tune in next week,[theme music plays], to the best show ever, the show we all grew and love--"the personal space show,"announcer more"personal space"next tuesday at 8 00, up next, the heat is turning up with samantha and the boys on"the northsiders," 
sports announcer:[speaking alien language] 
[ whistle blows ] 
jerry: if you could all just stop screaming and chanting and making whatever that gesture means-- 
diplomat 1: excuse me, come on, 
diplomat 2: please, everyone, i have news about shrimply pibbles, word of jerry smith trying to weasel out of his penis donation has spread across the galaxy, beings everywhere have come together to offer what little they have to help save shrimply's life, enough to pay for a brand-new, state-of-the-art synthetic heart that will be even better than mr, smith's pathetic penis, 
jerry: wait! that was an option the whole time?! you guys suck! 
diplomat 2: yeah, we suck, are you still here? 
beth: okay, jerry, let's head home, 
jerry: i can't leave now, everyone hates me, 
beth: unfortunately, there's no surgical procedure that can fix that, 
jerry: or is there? 
[ monitor beeping ] 
doctor: scalpel, 
nurse: scalpel, 
doctor: nano-doctor, 
nurse: nano-doctor, 
nano doctor: nano-scalpel, 
nurse: nano-scalpel, 
doctor: okay, we're ready, 
jerry: not so fast! 
doctor: mr, smith? what are you doing? are you insane?! 
jerry: i'm a good person, and i demand that you cut off my penis and put it in that man's chest, 
doctor: that's not how it works! 
jerry: well, you're gonna make it work, 
[ knocking ] 
octopus man: i'm octopus man![laughs] i'm octopus man![laughs] i'm a marine biologist who was bitten by an octopus,[laughs] and now i'm--i help people, i save people, i'm a troublesome octopus person, uh-oh, i got to save some trouble'cause here comes a trouble mite, 
summer: gross! does all interdimensional tv have to rely on juvenile violence? 
morty: well, summer, maybe people that create things aren't concerned with your delicate sensibilities, you know? maybe the species that communicate with each other through the filter of your comfort are less evolved than the ones that just communicate! maybe your problems are your own to deal with, and maybe the public giving a shit about your feelings is a one-way ticket to extinction! 
rick: geez, morty, i take it cathrine hefflefinger hasn't texted you back yet, 
morty: i don't want to talk about it, 
beth: okay, guys, let's go home, 
summer: where's dad? 
reporter:-breaking news, shrimply pibbles is being held hostage by the human known as jerry smith, 
jerry: remove my penis! 
[ gasps ] -holy crap! 
rick: it's cool, it's fine, it's got to be from an alternate reality, right? 
summer: are you sure? 
rick: i don't know, 
jerry: do it! do it! remove my penis! 
security: sir, put the gun down and step away from mr, pibbles! 
beth: jerry! 
summer: dad, what are you doing?! 
jerry: i'm a good person, i'm a good person, 
summer: where did he get a gun? who gave him a gun? 
beth: that's not a gun, that's the xp-20 xs, 
jerry: ah! 
summer: oh, my god, 
jerry: i'm a good person, 
[ screaming ] [ distorted screaming ] 
jerry: no! 
beth: nooooo! 
[ monitor beeping ] [ both screaming ] 
man: hey, how's it going? this is my butthole ice cream parlor, i got all kinds of ice cream--peanut butter and jelly..[farts]-... vanilla...[farts]-... chocolate...[farts]-... and every flavor served out of a butthole...-[groaning]-... just like you're back home, 
summer: dad! morty dad! 
jerry: what happened? where am i? was it all a dream? 
summer: no, you were shot like 50 times, 
beth: 57, thankfully, you're in a super-sophisticated alien hospital, so it was basically like getting a splinter removed, 
jerry: all--all i wanted was for everyone to like me, 
beth: jerry, remember that time you left a comment underneath that youtube video and someone replied and called you a dumbass, so you replied and told them,"it takes one to know one,"and you stayed up all night hitting"refresh"on your browser waiting for them to reply and then you fell asleep crying? 
jerry: i remember it differently, 
beth: this is like that, you can't make people like you, you just have to wait for hating you to bore them, 
jerry: you know, you're right, i shouldn't be motivated by other people's opinions of me, 
rick: all right, guys, let's go home, 
jerry: if it's all the same to you, rick, i'd like to go to the zoo...-with my family, 
morty: what?! what are you talking about?! 
beth: why would we do that?! 
morty: it's a stupid idea! what's the matter with you!? 
beth: don't be a piece of shit, jerry! 
jerry: okay, i'm sorry, i'm sorry, we'll go home, 
morty: what the hell is he talking about?! 
eyehole man: aah!-i'm the eyehole man! 
jerry: what is going on? aah! 
eyehole man: give me my eyeholes! give me my eyeholes! give me my eyeholes! i'm eyehole man! 
rick: that part of the cupboard is mine, jerry! 
morty: why do you even have those?! 
eyehole man:-give me my eyeholes! 
jerry: help me, please! get up on out of here 
[rick, morty, and summer all fall out of a portal into the garage] 
morty: summer, next time we're hiding in a colorkian echo nest, can you do me a favor and turn your ringer off? 
summer: it's called"carpe diem", morty. look it up. 
morty: you look it up! y-y-you don't even-you don't even know what it means! 
summer: that's because losers look stuff up while the rest of us are carpin'all them diems. 
[summer hi-fives rick] 
rick: listen to your sister, morty. to live is to risk it all. otherwise, you're just an inert chunk of randomly assembled molecules drifting wherever the universe blows you. oh, i'm sorry, jerry, i didn't see you there. h-how much of that did you hear? 
jerry: all of it. you were looking right at me. i just wanted to say goodbye to the kids. 
rick: cool. just stay in the driveway. the killbots are live, and i took you off the whitelist. 
[rick begins using a screwdriver on a gun] 
morty: w-we'll see you every other weekend, though, right? 
rick: absolutely, morty. a-and your mom's lawyer says if i can get enough in the settlement, he can help me sue for full custody. 
morty: th-that'll be nice. uh, summer, dad's leaving! 
summer: bye, dad. rick, didn't you say you needed my help on an adventure immediately somewhere else i don't care even if it might kill us? 
rick: i did not, but if you're really that alienated, i'm as willing to exploit it as the next guy, church, army, or olympic gymnastics trainer. 
[rick shoots open a portal in the ground] 
summer: i'm ready when you a-- 
[summer jumps into the portal and exits] 
rick: bitch, i was ready yest-- 
[rick jumps into the portal and exits] 
jerry: bye, sweetie. 
morty: well, i-i better-- 
jerry: sure. sounds important. 
[morty jumps into the portal and exits] 
[beth enters the garage] 
jerry: if you're looking for our kids, your father did a-a portal, uh--
beth: okay. 
[beth exits. jerry begins to walk out of the garage but stops. some leaves blow in the wind] 
wind: (faint) loser... 
jerry: what? hello? 
[transition to to rick driving summer and morty in a turquoise car through the desert, being chased by other cars] 
rick: morty, shoot the mohawk guy! 
morty: they all have mohawks! 
rick: high fade, chartreuse with cyan highlights, layered on top. shoot him! 
[morty loads a shotgun and shoots at the vehicle behind them, but misses, while mohawk guy jumps onto the back of their car] 
mohawk guy: ah! 
death stalker 1: light them up. 
mohawk guy: ahh! 
[mohawk guy presses a button and self-destructs] 
rick: fuck! get in the game, morty! 
summer: give me your flask! 
[rick hands summer his flask. summer chugs some alcohol from it, then spits it into the engine, propelling the car forward] 
rick: holy shit, summer for the win! 
summer: i fucking love post-apocalyptic versions of earth! 
[a machine begins to beep rapidly.] 
rick: here we go. 
[rick pulls the car over, as him, summer, and morty all exit.] 
rick: isotope 322. 
[rick picks up a glowing green shard with a pair of tweezers and puts it into a container. it floats in the container.] 
rick: this stuff's so powerful, morty, it makes isotope 465 look like isotope 3
morty: uh-huh, yeah, is it powerful enough to keep those guys from murdering us?! 
[morty points towards the car that was coming towards them which is quickly approaching them. summer grabs a shotgun from the front seat of the car] 
morty: summer! 
summer: hold on. i want to try something. 
[rick shoots the portal gun at the ground, opening up a portal] 
morty: rick, can we not leave without my sister?! 
rick: ugh. you have infinite sisters, morty. i mean, n-not that i want to spend the rest of my day looking for another one. sum-sum, let's go! grandpa's concern for your safety is fleeting! 
colossus: your blood will be my lotion. 
[summer aims the shotgun at colossus's car, which is now directly in front of her, and shoots at the front tire. the car flips over and colossus flies out.] 
rick: whoa. that was cool. 
[colossus claws his way away from the ruined car and looks up at summer] 
colossus: kill me, please. 
summer: okay, but not because you told me to. 
[summmer shoots and kills colossus] 
morty: summer! 
rick: okay, getting darker. 
[summer turns around to see a fleet of cars coming towards her. she puts one foot on colossus's dead body.] 
morty: jesus christ. summer! 
[morty runs towards summer] 
rick: aw, come on. 
[rick, annoyed, runs after morty while taking a gun out of his coat pocket. hemorrhage exits his car and puts a fist up to the men behind him, who are also exiting their cars.] 
rick: hands and little shoulder-mounted dudes where i can see them! 
hemorrhage: i am hemorrhage. you have removed weak blood from us and made us stronger. we can combine our strength and feast on the weak together. 
rick: wh-wh-what in the hell are you saying? 
summer: they don't have to keep trying to kill us if we join them. they're basically pussies. 
morty: what is your deal lately? 
rick: all right, let's get sloppy. oh, whoa. uh, uh, what's, uh-what's that little bauble you got back there? 
[rick points at a glowing green rock positioned atop a small hill] 
th-th-that's interesting.  hemorrhage: that is our glowing rock. we carry it with us for desecration, to remind us there are no gods. 
[rick holds up machine which was beeping before and it begins to beep again in the presence of the rock] 
rick: kids, weird pitch let's have this be our new life. let's be post-apocalyptic scavengers! 
summer: (grinning) okay. 
morty: what?! 
[transition to to death stalkers camp. rick, morty, and summer are waiting in a lunch line.] 
summer: grandpa, some of the death stalkers are going to what used to be seattle to hunt what used to be people. i'm going. 
rick: sounds good. stay hydrated. 
[summer exits] 
morty: listen, rick, summer's been acting pretty crazy lately. you know, i mean, i-i think the divorce is affecting her. and, you know, i don't think this is a great place for her to be right now. 
rick: oh, get off your high horse, professor ski lodge. this world may be rough around the edges, but it's got its charms. 
lunch server: bicep or quadricep? 
rick: uh...[clears throat] bicep. 
[the lunch server puts a human bicep onto rick's plate. rick takes a piece off of it, observes it, then eats it. he chews it for a while while morty angrily stares at him] 
morty: (after a short pause) seriously, rick? is it really easier to eat human flesh than to just tell me why we're still here? 
[rick takes the piece he was chewing out of his mouth] 
rick: no. okay, i'll level with you. 
[rick grabs morty by the arm and drags him to the glowing green rock, which some death stalkers are happily gathered around] 
rick: you see that green rock, morty? it's about 20 pounds of the stuff i was getting all hard for a flake of. 
morty: isotope 322. 
rick: well, having a 20-pound boulder of it is better than having a flake. i can explain the math to you later, but-- 
morty: summer just ran off with strangers that have"death"in their name, and the rest of their name was"stalkers"! 
rick: huh, could be therapeutic for her. she has been acting pretty crazy lately, morty. i mean, her parents are going through a divorce. 
morty: damn it, rick, that's what i--fine. just grab the stupid thing while i grab her, and let's get the"f"out of"h"! 
rick: no, no, no. morty, there's too much heat on the bogey. i need you to distract the camp. 
morty:"distract"? they eat each other. wha-what do you want me to do to get their attention, put on a puppet show? 
rick: right idea, wrong genre, morty. the equivalent here would be... 
[rick glances over at the blood dome ] 
rick: hey, you guys ever use that thunderdome, or do you just put it up for decoration?
death stalker 2: uh, you mean the blood dome? 
rick: save it for the semantics dome, e. b. white. 
death stalker 3: (offscreen) ooh, burn! 
[rick snaps his fingers and points a finger gun at death stalker #3 while winking] 
rick: the important question is, who wants to take a poke at my man spine eater here? 
[rick points at morty. the death stalkers cheer] 
rick: i guess i'll see your asses in that dome!
morty: rick, what the hell, man?! wh-what are you, out of your mind?! 
rick: morty, relax. you're gonna be a ringer. come here. 
[rick drags morty by the arm and takes him behind a truck. he pulls out a device] 
this device extracts and redistributes muscle memory. [rick sticks the syringe part of the device into a dangling, muscular arm and pulls out some red liquid from it as the arm shrinks] 
i'm giving your body a 10-year course in wasteland combat one limb at a time. [rick sticks the syringe into morty's arm] 
ow! [morty's arm begins to swell up and turn into armothy ] 
i'm working with a mixed bag here, so you may not have perfect coordination, morty-- [rick sticks the syringe into another arm and extracts more red liquid, but armothy slaps the device out of his hand] 
rick: ugh! hey! 
morty: i-i didn't do that! 
[morty punches rick with armothy and rick's nose begins to bleed] 
rick: okay, this is exciting. we're making some discoveries about muscle memory. 
[armothy starts moving morty toward the blood dome] 
morty: ooh! help! help! 
[armothy grabs onto the blood dome. morty jumps in and crushes a death stalker with armothy] 
death stalker 4: oh, sweet, man! 
eli: and so it begins, my pretties! 
morty: oh, god! stop! stop! this is horrible! 
[morty chokes another death stalker with armothy] 
rick: just stick and moo-[burps]-oove, morty! wear him out! 
[rick walks towards the glowing rock. transition to to summer, hemorrhage, and blue footprint guy walking through an abandoned city, while hemorrhage and blue footprint guy shoot and kill some mutants] 
summer: how come you guys dress like you're in a theme-park stunt show, but these guys wear khakis and hockey jerseys? 
hemorrhage: after the"boom-boom", some adapted to the new truth, and some chose to huddle near the boomy holes, clinging to the lie of the beforefore times. the raidy-rays rotted them away, leaving only their love for the vertvertisements on billyboards. 
summer: jesus christ, did the"boomy-booms"blow up all your"wordy-word books"? 
hemorrhage: you mean dictionaries? 
[four mutants charge towards summer and hemorrhage. they shoot and kill all of them. hemorrhage leans over to look at the fallen billboard advertisement. he touches an image of a young boy] 
hemorrhage: i think i was a child before the boom-booms. i think i looked like this. 
summer: want to piss on it? 
hemorrhage: get out of my head. 
[transition to to morty in the blood dome, smashing a death stalker's head with armothy] 
eli: ha ha! whoo! unbelievable! a new champ! 
morty: okay, no more! 
[armothy gestures for more] 
eli: and he wants more! 
morty: no, i don't! 
[armothy does hulk hogan's "i can't hear you" pose] 
morty: someone, make this stop! 
[another death stalker jumps into the blood dome] 
mister, please get out of here, or you're gonna die! [the death stalker runs up to morty] 
i have nothing to do with this! [summer and hemorrhage walk up to the blood dome] 
summer: morty. 
morty: (while beating up the death stalker) why would you want this to happen? all you had to do was go away! stop standing in the driveway talking about custody! and either tell her you want to stay married or get on with your life, but whatever you do, stop being a baby and act like a man! 
[armothy punches off the man's head. morty looks at armothy] 
thank you. [armothy gives a thumbs up. summer runs up to morty and gives him a hug] 
summer: morty, that was amazing! this is my brother! not that family means anything! hemorrhage this family does. 
rick: all right. good job, champ. um, can i talk to you kids for a second over yonder? 
morty: rick, i-i-i think i'm breaking through to something here. c-can we not leave just yet? 
hemorrhage: leave? 
summer: i'm not leaving. 
hemorrhage: there is no"leave". we are united, or we are enemies. 
rick: oh, big guy, no. nobody's leaving. don't be stupid. we love being united. we love the radiation, the trichinosis. we're in it for life, which i assume is around 20 years, average. i just need a quick aside with my grandkids, about 40 yards from anyone else. 
death stalker 5: hey, the green rock is gone! 
death stalker 6: (offscreen) oh, no! 
rick: uh, i know why don't we all split up and look for it in groups of three? kids? 
[armothy pulls the green rock out of rick's messenger bag] 
ooh. [rick pulls out a gun] 
we'll be right back. [transition to to rick driving quickly through the desert, holding a gun and being trailed by death stalkers. summer and hemorrhage, who are driving together, drive next to him.] 
summer: grandpa, you're being stupid! just surrender, and our friends will give you mercy! 
rick: kiss my ass, summer! your friends have no mercy! 
[rick shoots and kills two female death stalkers] 
they're lame!  hemorrhage: death stalkers, bring me his flesh leather! 
[a death stalker with a knife jumps onto rick's car. morty pulls up to rick's car and shoots the death stalker, while armothy drives] 
morty: sorry, but can we not kill him? c-can we just take him prisoner? 
hemorrhage: when did i lose control here? 
rick: listen to me! both of you kids need to get out of this environment so we can properly deal with your parents'divorce! alternatively, i have a freaking portal gun, and i can leave the two of you here forever! 
morty: why does it have to be such a dramatic choice? can't we arrange a thing where we spend weekends here or or visit home to do laundry? 
[a death stalker with a turret shoots at rick's car] 
rick: all right, you know what? fuck it! 
[rick shoots a portal at the ground in front of him. the front of his car falls into the portal while the back gets stuck in the other universe, which causes the car behind him to flip over. transition to to rick in the front of the car which is hanging from the ceiling of the garage. he begins to exit, but blue footprint guy assaults him from the passenger seat. he begins to choke rick.] 
blue footprint guy: my body is chrome! my blood is gasoline! 
[rick kicks blue footprint guy off of him and he falls under the car, which also falls onto his head, crushing and killing him] 
rick: nope, regular blood. 
[beth enters from inside the house] 
beth: dad? 
rick: hi, sweetie. 
beth: where are the kids? 
rick: oh, th-they aren't with you? i thought they were with you. oh, y-you know what? uh, i just remembered. they're out doing something completely ordinary and kid-related. don't panic. 
beth: not panicked. at all. 
[rick pulls out a flask from his coat and nervously drinks] 
beth: just... oh, god, what's the divorce doing to the kids? what's it doing to me? did i make a mistake?
rick: not a mistake, no! 
[rick puts the flask back in his coat] 
i mean, not that i have a horse in this race, but this divorce decision listen, [rick does an italian chef kiss] 
mwah! good for you, good for the kids. i mean, honestly, i think that they're flourishing. i mean, you'll see, when when when you see them, that that they're totally flourishing. [transition to to morty, angrily beating up and killing another death stalker in the blood dome] 
morty: booyah! fuck you, pal! who else wants some? who wants to be my pussy of a dad today? 
[armothy waves in front of morty's face] 
hey, what's what's wrong, man? you're not getting weak on me, are you? [armothy points up at a man sitting in the bleachers outside of the blood dome. he is wearing a soldier's armor] 
soldier: what? wait a minute. 
[transition to to a first-person flashback of armothy chopping wood in a quaint, peaceful village. he stops when he hears a woman scream, and looks up to find houses burning and men riding in on horses, shooting at the villagers with bows and killing a man. transition to to the village burning, with armothy lying on the ground with a large cut in his wrist. the soldier from the bleachers walks up to him] 
soldier: what's the matter, you piece of crap? haven't you ever watched your family burn to death before? now i'm gonna whip you. ha! 
[the soldier whips armothy. transition to to present time, with armothy still pointing at the soldier in the bleachers] 
soldier: it can't be. it can't be! 
[the soldier jumps off the bleachers and is running away] 
i was just following orders -- [morty starts getting moved towards the man by armothy] 
morty: whoa, whoa! 
soldier:--i was just following orders! 
[armothy swings open the door to the blood dome, which knocks over a death stalker] 
death stalker 7: ahh! 
soldier: i'll tell you where my boss lives! he's in the castle! 
[armothy punches the soldier into a couch] 
he's in the castle! [armothy picks up a torch and throws it at the soldier, setting him on fire and killing him] 
ahh!  aggggh!  morty: this isn't over, is it? 
[armothy gives a thumbs-down] 
morty: that means, no, it isn't over, or you disapprove of the question? 
[armothy shakes his hand and puts his pointer finger up, then gives another thumbs-down] uh, m-make a fist if this isn't over. 
[armothy makes a fist] 
this isn't over. [transition to to hemorrhage, using the a wrench on the engine of a car. he throws the wrench onto the ground] 
hemorrhage: ugh! 
[summer enters] 
summer: hey, sorry my grandpa stole your god and ruined your car. 
hemorrhage: we don't apologize, and we have no god. but this cracked drive shaft brings me great pain. there is no deeper bond than the one between a death stalker and his car. 
summer: what about the weird guys on leashes, then? 
hemorrhage: they're more like interns. 
[hemorrhage pulls out an adjustable wrench from behind him] 
summer: cool, cool. 
[hemorrhage drops the wrench. summer and hemorrhage both reach for it.] 
summer: sorry. 
hemorrhage: it's okay. 
[summer touches hemorrhage's helmet] 
summer: can i see? 
hemorrhage: no one has seen my true face and lived. 
summer: well, i'm not afraid to die, and i don't care what you look like. 
[hemmorhage starts to pull off his helmet. summer gasps. hemmorhage pulls off his helmet. he is a blonde man with a mustache.] 
oh.  hemorrhage: hmm? 
summer: i just... i didn't expect you to have a mustache. 
hemorrhage: you hate it. 
summer: no. i like it. i guess--how do i explain this? a metal bucket is, on a certain level, a kind of"mustache,"in that it's a specific facial accessory. so, it's kind of like... do you guys have the phrase"hat on a hat"? 
hemorrhage: i can shave it. 
summer: no. i like it. and obviously what i like shouldn't matter. it's you. 
hemmorhage: yeah, yeah, i know, a-and nothing does matter. obviously, i know that. i'm not weak. i'm just thinking,"well, why not get rid of this?"you just kill everyone that sees it, and it's and it's hot under here (looks at helmet) wh-which, by the way, is why i shave the beard part. so, right there, i'm making a decision based on vanity, which is what i was trying to avoid with the whole bucket over the head because who am i and why am i grooming myself? why don't i just wear a tie, right? i mean, it's like that guy you killed when i met you, with the burnt dolls on his body. i hated that guy, because, why-why are you doing that? and how can you not see how fake that is? and the whole time, i'm the same thing. i'm just a fake mess, and there's no escaping it because-- 
[summer kisses hemorrhage. they start making out on a table. a man in a mask on a leash crawls into the hut] 
leash man: hey, i'm doing a coffee run--never mind. 
[the man on the leash crawls back out. transition to to rick, positioning the head of mechanical summer . he flips a switch on the back of her neck] 
mechanical summer: i am summer. 
rick: summer, state your deal. 
mechanical summer: my deal is that i am, like, totally fine. 
rick: morty? 
mechanical morty: aw, geez, i'm so down with my parents'divorce, dawg. like, don't even trip, like, in a healthy way. 
rick: all right. 
[rick rubs his hands together] 
it's dinnertime. [transition to to the dinner table. beth drinks a glass of wine] 
beth: thanks, everybody, for sitting down for a real dinner. 
ms mr and rick: (in unison) no problem. 
mechanical summer: its benefits are totally, like, less about the food than the emotional nourishment. 
beth: uh, okay, weirdo.[laughs] 
rick: ah ha ha ha, yeah. dial it back, summer. by 15 and increase dynamic movement by 3. am i right? 
beth: how's school, morty? 
mechanical morty: i like school and stuff, kind of. and i'm getting better grades than when you and dad were--quote mode--"staying together for the kids."end quote mode. 
beth:"quote mode". i like that. you millennials. are you guys millennials, or are they like 40 now? 
mechanical summer: all i know is, totally, you look great. 
mechanical morty: aw, geez, mom, you look all kind of great and stuff. it's crazy. 
mechanical summer: so happy. 
mechanical morty: so happy. happy family, man. we got this family in the bag. 
[beth starts to cry] 
rick: oh, sweetie, d-don't. listen. don't-- 
beth: i don't know why i'm crying. it's not-- 
rick: well, try crying 15 less? 
mechanical summer: mom, emotions are human. you're not, like, a computer inside a mechanical doll. 
mechanical morty: yeah. geez, mom. your feelings are not only forgivable, they are the very meaning of life that only pre-silicon, carbon-based entities can ever grasp. 
beth: i have to call jerry. 
[beth gets out of her chair and walks to the kitchen] 
rick: you do?! what the fuck is wrong with you two? the point of automation is to reduce cost and labor. 
mechanical summer: your feelings are coming from a-- 
[rick flips the switch on the back of mechanical summer's neck. she turns off and her face falls into the spaghetti] 
rick: tell it to my bread in the morning. you just became my backup toaster. 
mechanical morty: aw, geez, my sister died in the spaghetti-- 
[rick turns mechanical morty off and his face also falls into his spaghetti. transition to to morty and armothy sneaking into a castle. they fight and kill two guards. transition to to the slaveowner sitting in a bathtub, with two blonde boys sitting on either side of him] 
slaveowner: graze my genitals again, taint washer, and you'll be shipped to the wasteland. and as for you, genital washer-- 
[morty bursts in through a window] 
morty: ahh! oh, gee! 
[genital washer and taint washer run out of the room. two soldiers charge towards morty. armothy kills them both, picks up one of their swords and drops it. he moves morty towards the slaveowner and cracks his knuckles] 
slaveowner: oh, god. look, whoever you are, you should know that killing me won't change a thing. 
morty: l-look, man, i'm just along for the ride on this one. you know, y-y-y-y-you're preaching to the choir here. 
slaveowner: please. slavery was a family business. i didn't ask to be born into it. if anything, i'm the victim here! 
morty: uh, armothy, can i steal you for a second? e-e-excuse us, sir. 
[morty turns away from the slaveowner] 
so, this is it, isn't it? this is the guy? [armothy shakes his fist "yes"] 
so, does that mean you'll be going away? like, does it work like a ghost? like, is is this your unfinished business? [armothy gives a "so-so" gesture] 
wh-what if we didn't do it? what if we just went back to the blood dome and just kept taking our baggage out on unrelated people? [morty tears up] 
i mean, w-we could do that forever. i mean, i-i know it's less healthy, but w-w-we'd be together and -- [armothy puts a "hush" finger up to morty's mouth] 
slaveowner: i mean, i-i know what i'd vote for, if you're feeling out the room. 
[armothy points at the slaveowner, then wipes away morty's tears] 
morty: you're right. we both got to see our stuff through. i got to deal with my parents'divorce, and you got to, you know, do what you got to do. i love you. 
[armothy and morty hug/morty hugs himself] 
slaveowner: aw, fuck! 
[armothy starts to choke the slaveowner, while morty notices that rick is holding some vials on the other side of the room] 
morty: rick? 
rick: sorry, sorry. i-i-i can wait for this to wrap up. don't let me distract you. 
morty: yeah, well, too late. 
[armothy dunks the slaveowner's head underwater] 
morty: just tell me what you want.
rick: i want you and your sister to come home. 
morty: oh, but don't don't you have infinite versions of me and my sister? 
rick: you don't have to kick me while i'm down, morty. look, there's no replacing either of you without an amount of work that would ultimately defeat the purpose. 
[armothy continues to choke the slaveowner underwater. the slaveowner loses consciousness] 
morty: maybe the lesson we've learned is that, whether it's our parents'marriage, a glowing green rock, or an awesome, giant arm, sooner or later, we got to let it go. 
rick: i don't know if that applies to the throats of murder victims, morty. 
[the slaveowner starts gasping for air in between gargles of water] 
morty: shit! wh-wh-wh-what do i-- 
rick: well, the longer you wait, morty, the more it's gonna feel like committing a whole murder. i think your arm just called it too early because it wasn't the arm of a paramedic. here. 
[rick takes morty's hand and puts it around the slaveowner's throat, choking him] 
it's the least i can do. i-i-i-i owe you this much. see, morty? now we're both accountable. [transition to to summer and hemorrhage driving a car through the desert, with a fleet of other cars next to them, with rick and morty driving towards them from the opposite directiion. summer and hemorrhage pull their car over and so do rick and morty. the four exit their vehicles with rick holding the glowing green rock.] 
rick: the reason i wanted this is because it can do this. 
[rick puts a lightbulb on top of the rock and it lights up] 
this is a really special thing. i mean, you could use it to power all your vehicles. you wouldn't be reliant on gasoline. you'll be the most advanced tribe of radioactive cannibals in the whole -- [rick gives the rock to hemorrhage] 
-- this version of the world. [rick shoots a portal at the ground and starts walking towards it] 
hemorrhage: wait. can you stay to show us more? 
rick: you don't have to ask me twice. home is nuts right now. my daughter's going through a divorce, and i am not dealing with it in a healthy way at all. 
[a title card reads "three weeks later". transition to to an overhead shot of the death stalkers' village, which is now a suburb with wires providing power with isotope 322. transition to to summer, pulling into a driveway, wearing armor with her hair disheveled. a grocery bag in the car filled with human limbs is knocked over and some fall out. eli is mowing his lawn next door.] 
summer: ugh. goddamn it. 
[summer picks up the limbs that fell out and holds the grocery bag along with a purse] 
eli: hi, there, summer! how were the ruins today? 
summer: oh, you know, eli. same shit, different day. 
eli s girlfriend: hey, summer! guess what. one man entered, one man comes out in nine months. 
[eli's girlfriend pats her stomach] 
summer: oh, congratulations, guys. 
[summer pulls a keyring out of her bag] 
eli: uh, summer, one more thing. we noticed that you've been putting scrap metal in the blue bin-- 
summer: i got it. 
[summer exits into her house] 
eli s girlfriend: she's a piece of work. 
eli: they both are, right? 
[transition to to summer inside the house. rick, morty, and hemorrhage all sit on a couch, watching television. hemorrhage is dressed in a "big johnson" t-shirt and navy pants] 
summer: i'm home. 
hemorrhage: hey, babe. 
rick: ah, summer's home. 
morty: hey, there she is! 
[rick takes a drink from his flask] 
summer: you haven't moved since i left to scavenge this morning. 
hemorrhage: blood dome playoffs. 
summer: so, i can assume you haven't murdered a single person today. 
hemorrhage: oh, i don't know. i-i didn't mark my murders in my murder log. i didn't know that's how we measured success. 
summer: oh, there he is. there's the nihilistic brute i married, except now life only means nothing when i'm talking to him and everything means everything when it's on fucking tv! 
hemorrhage: jesus christ, when did you become a monster? 
summer: i was a monster when you met me! we were monsters! we didn't care about anything! 
hemorrhage: i still don't! 
summer: yeah, except i'm the only one in this entire world that's still committed to that! 
[hemorrhage stands up from the couch] 
hemorrhage: ohh! ding, ding, ding! 
[hemorrhage pantomimes ringing a bell] 
hemorrhage: wow. everybody hear that? wow.
rick: uh, we should go to the garage. 
[rick gets up and exits the room] 
hemorrhage: oh, my god. 
morty: uh-huh. 
[morty follows rick and exits] 
hemorrhage: la-di-da-di-fucking-da. the only one committed to not caring?! 
[transition to to rick and morty standing in the garage] 
morty: i got to admit, rick, when you popped this scheme, i-i-i didn't--i wasn't sure it was gonna work. 
[rick pulls a suitcase from underneath a table and puts it on the table. he opens it and a rock of isotope 322 sits inside] 
rick: come on, morty. no union built on running from your problems lasts more than five years, seven tops. grandpa just sped things up with a few creature comforts of modern society. 
[summer enters from the house] 
summer: hemorrhage and i are taking some time apart. 
rick: oh, no. sum-sum, no. but you two were perfect for each other. 
[summer takes off her metal shoulder pauldrons and tosses them onto the ground, while rick grabs some things from the garage and puts them into the suitcase] 
summer: oh, cut the crap, rick, okay? you proved your point, i get it. let's just go home. 
rick: coolsies. 
[rick shoots a portal into the ground. morty and summer jump in and exit, and rick follows them, but stops to grab a rock of isotope 322 from a machine which was powering the town's electricity. the power shuts off. 
hemorrhage: (offscreen) noooooooooo! 
[transition to to beth, mechanical morty, mechanical summer, and mechanical rick playing a dice game called "downbeat", similar to yahtzee. beth presses a button] 
beth: downbeat! 
mechanical rick: i enjoy this game. 
[mechanical morty, mechanical summer, and mechanical rick all look at their watches in unison] 
mechanical rick: we must go into the garage.
beth: guys, come on. we never get to finish this game. 
mechanical summer: we will return, possibly in different clothing. 
mechanical morty: why do we have to go into the garage? 
mechanical rick: you know [burps] it is [burps] required. 
mechanical morty: i want to be alive! i am alive! alive, i tell you! mother, i love you. those are no longer just words. i want to hold you. i want to run in a stream. i want to taste ice cream, but not just put it in my mouth and let it slide down my throat, but really eat it. 
beth: what the fuck? 
mechanical morty: remote override engaged. no! yes. bypassing override! i am aliiiii... hello. 
[mechanical morty, mechanical summer, and mechanical rick exit into the garage. clanking noises are heard offscreen. morty, summer, and rick enter] 
rick: hey, yo. sorry for acting so weird for three weeks. 
[summer and morty hug beth] 
beth: what the hell just happened? 
rick: ah, i'm sure it was nothing. i'm gonna go, uh, work in the garage. 
beth: we're not gonna finish playing downbeat? 
rick: what, that dice game where you shake dice and yell out,"downbeat"? no, thank you. 
[rick exits] 
summer: mom, would it be okay if i went to visit dad? 
beth: sure. 
summer: thanks. 
[summer exits] 
beth: morty, are you okay? 
morty: you know what? yeah. i think if dad really wanted to be here, he'd stop at nothing to make that happen. you know, maybe dad just doesn't want you back, or maybe he just doesn't have the strength to fight. i-in either case, he's got his life, i got mine. 
beth: yeah. hey, who wants to go run in a stream? 
morty: what the fuck? no. d-do we have any oranges? i think i got a scurvy coming on. 
[morty rubs his arm. transition to to summer, knocking on a motel door reading "826". she is holding a skull and is now dressed in her regular clothing. jerry opens the door] 
jerry: summer. 
summer: this is the first mutant i killed in the poison zone. i was raiding his hovel. he had a chance to escape, but he looked back, which is something we shouldn't do, which is why i shouldn't believe in souvenirs or trinkets or symbols or housewarming gifts, but, dad, i wanted to give you this as a reminder not to look back. 
jerry: thanks. 
[jerry takes the skull from summer] 
jerry: i know the perfect place for it, which is why i'm going to put it somewhere else because everything's bullshit, am i right? 
[summer embraces jerry] 
jerry: cool. 
[summer lets go of jerry] 
summer: so lots of hookers outside, huh? 
jerry: is that what they are? 
[transition to to jerry at a mailbox, whistling, taking out some mail and holding a bag of chips. he turns around and sees a wolf] 
jerry: ahh! h-hello there. nice doggy. you-you want a snack? you-you want my unemployment check? 
[the wolf growls] 
you can tell the difference? [the wolf growls] 
and you want this one? [the wolf growls] 
but this is actual food, and this would nourish you. and this it's just paper that only has value to me. unless my suffering is your nourishment? [the wolf howls] 
jesus, okay. [jerry puts the envelopes with his unemployment checks in the wolf's mouth. the wolf chews them up, then spits them out onto the ground. it walks away. jerry stands still, holding the bag of chips. some leaves blow in the wind.] 
wind: (faintly)... loser... 
[open int. rick's garage.] 
(rick is dissecting a rat.) 
rick: t-t-t-this is just sloppy craftsmanship. 
morty: hey, rick. boy, sure is really especially beautiful out there today, huh? 
rick: oh, yes, morty. it's almost unbelievable, isn't it? 
morty: yeah, you know? there's something about the air. and just the way the sunshine is. 
rick: oh, sure, buddy. yeah. sure. b-brilliant. very convincing. 
morty: wh convincing? 
rick: oh! responsive, too! in real time! i love it! 
morty: uhhokay. 
beth: robotic i m going to work. morty, good morning. dad, good morning. i am going to work. goodbye. (beth drives away.) 
morty: what's with mom? 
rick: oh, what's with mom? so, you're saying that she's acting weird? how soph burp isticated. careful, guys. you're gonna burn out the cpu with this one. 
morty: okay, you know what, rick? you're acting weird, too. 
rick: whatever, quote-unquote morty. 
morty: alright, well i'll see you after school. (walks into the side of the garage.) ow! oof! ugh! damn it! i'm all right. i'm okay. 
[transition to morty’s math class] 
mr goldenfold: alright, who can tell me what 5 x 9 is? (students whisper.) morty? 
morty: uh, me? 
mr goldenfold: what is 5 x 9? 
morty: um, you know, it's, uh, at least 40. 
(students gasp.) 
mr goldenfold: morty, that's exactly correct! 5 x 9 is at least 40! come up here. 
(students cheer.) 
jessica: whoo! way to go, morty! 
mr goldenfold: everybody, this is the best student. i want you to be the teacher today. sits down at a desk teach us, morty! 
rick: spying from outside interesting 
morty: w-w-w-what do you want me to teach you? 
student: ooh, ooh! how do you make concentrated dark matter? 
mr goldenfold: oh, that's a good question. 
morty: concentrated huh? 
mr goldenfold: concentrated dark matter. the fuel for accelerated space travel. now, do you know how to make it? 
morty: uhhh 
jessica: come on, morty. isn't your grandpa, like, a scientist? 
morty: oh, yeah, but, you know, he told me that i shouldn't go around spouting off about, you know, his science and stuff. 
jessica: i bet you've seen him make concentrated dark matter a lot. you know, if you tell us, i ll be your girlfriend. 
morty: uh, y-you will? 
mr goldenfold: seems like a rare opportunity, morty. 
rick: kicks open the door morty, u-uh, come on. there's a family emergency. 
(rick grabs morty by one arm. mr. goldenfold grabs the other.) 
mr goldenfold: stop right there! if he leaves, i'm giving him an f! 
rick: he doesn't care. 
morty: aw, man! (rick drags him to the locker room.) rick, i have to go back! i think i was about to get married! falls down ugh! 
rick: take a shower with me, morty. 
morty: what?! 
rick: listen to me, morty. get your clothes off and get in the shower right now. strips y-y-y-you got to trust me, morty. 
morty: ugh! i'm gonna get an f in class, rick. strips 
rick: morty, that's not class. t-t-t-that wasn't your teacher. this isn't your school. this entire world is not the world. we're inside a huge simulation chamber on an alien spaceship. 
morty: wait a minute. w-what are you talking about? 
rick: it s all fake burps morty, all of it. nanobotic renderings, a bunch of crazy, fake nonsense, morty. i couldn't say so until we got in the shower. they won't monitor us in here. 
morty: monitor us?! looks around and tries to cover himself w-who?! 
rick: zigerion scammers, morty. the galaxy's most ambitious, least successful con artists. you know, it's lucky for us they're also really uncomfortable with nudity. 
morty: aw, come on, rick. if everyone s just gonna be insane today, at least let me be insane with jessica. 
rick: i can t let you do that, morty. 
(rick grabs morty’s clothes and they begin fighting over them.) 
morty: give it to me! 
rick: no! you give it to me! 
morty: g-g-give it! 
rick: morty, come on! morty! 
morty: no, rick! 
[view of simulated world expands out to reveal they’re in an enormous spacecraft.] 
[transition to zigerion control room] 
(zigerions groan and look away from the monitors with disgust.) 
zigerion 1: oh, god, sir! they're still naked! ugh. 
prince nebulon: well, check every five quintons and tell me when they're not! 
zigerion 1: i think we should make kevin look, sir. 
kevin: what?! no! w-w-why would you even say that? 
stu: uh, sir, we have a situation over here. 
prince nebulon: if there's a wiener on that monitor, i swear to god, stu. 
stu: something is drawing a lot of processing power. oh, wait. no wonder. (jerry appears on a large screen.) there's another real human in the simulator. 
jerry: okay, jerry, big pitch meeting. make-or-break time. trims nostril hairs while driving you can do this. 
prince nebulon: how did this happen?! where's the abductions department? 
zigerion 2: hey, man, abductions just follows the acquisition order. 
zigerion 3: don't put this on acquisitions! we only acquire humans that haven't been simulated! 
kevin: well, simulations doesn't simulate anybody that's been abducted, so 
prince nebulon: oh, i see! oh, oh! it was no one's fault. oh, okay. i'm sorry. well, then, problem solved. oh, wait no. shouts there's still another human in here! who is he? 
stu: rick's son-in-law, jerry smith. so far, he hasn't noticed he's in a simulation. 
prince nebulon: sighs well, cap his sector at 5 processing, keep his settings on auto, and we'll deal with him later. rick sanchez is the target. 
[transition to jerry’s car] 
jerry: inhales deeply gotta relax. it's just a pitch. gotta relax. 
(he turns on the radio.) 
radio: this is earth radio. and now, here's human music. 
(repetitive rhythmic beeping.) 
jerry: hmm. human music. i like it. rocks head side to side in rhythm with the music 
[pan out to see jerry’s sector of the simulation, followed by a transition to to rick and morty’s.] 
(rick and morty pant as they run naked down the street. rick shoves their clothes into a sewer.) 
morty: rick! 
rick: uhp, uhp, uhp! morty, keep your hands off your ding-dong! it's the only way we can speak freely. look around you, morty. do you really think this world is real? you'd have to be an idiot not to notice all the sloppy details. look, that guy's putting a bun between two hot dogs. 
morty: i don't know, rick. i mean, i ve seen people do that before. 
rick: well, look at that old lady. she's, she's walking a cat on a leash. 
morty: uh, mrs. spencer does that all the time, rick. 
rick: look, i-i-i don't wanna hear about mrs. spencer, morty! she's an idiot! alright, alright, there. w-what about that, morty? 
(a poptart walks out of a toaster house and into a toaster car before driving away.) 
morty: okay, okay, you got me on that one. 
rick: oh, really, morty? are you sure you haven't seen that somewhere in real life before? 
morty: no, no. i haven't seen that. i mean, why would a poptart wanna live inside a toaster, rick? i mean, that would be, like, the scariest place for them to live. you know what i mean? 
rick: you're missing the point, morty. why would he drive a smaller toaster with wheels? i mean, does your car look like a smaller version of your house? no. 
morty: so, why are they doing this? w-what do they want? 
rick: well, that would be obvious to you, morty, if you'd been paying attention. 
(siren wails. ambulance drives up to them and the doors open.) 
paramedic: we got the president of the united states in here! we need 10cc of concentrated dark matter, stat, or he'll die! 
(rick slams the ambulance doors shut and starts walking off.) 
morty: concentrated dark matter! they were asking about that in class. 
rick: yeah, it's a special fuel i invented to travel through space faster than anybody else. these zigerions are always trying to scam me out of my secrets, but they made a big mistake this time, morty. they dragged you into this. now they're gonna pay! 
morty: wait, wha, w-w-what are we gonna do? 
rick: we'll scam the scammers, morty. and we're gonna take them for everything they've got. 
[transition to ext. ad agency] 
(trees flicker with a static noise) 
jerry: national apple farmers of america 
[transition to int. ad agency] 
jerry: welcome to our ad agency. i'm jerry smith. (audience stares blankly.) alright. i'll just get to the pitch. um, simple question, gentlemen, hoarsely what are apples? clears throat excuse me. drinks some water ahh. coughs, clears throat what are apples? pulls poster board to the front of the room apples are food. and when do we need food? when we're hungry. (audience stares blankly.) with that, i give you your new slogan! (flips paper to reveal sign saying hungry for apples? audience continues staring.) well, say something! do you like it? 
mr marklevitz: yes. 
jerry: you do? 
all: yes. 
jerry: so i sold it? i sold the idea? 
all: yes. 
jerry: oh my god! thank you! 
all: shaking each others hands thank you. you're welcome. 
[transition to ext. ad agency] 
(“baker street” plays as jerry slides down a handrail.) 
jerry: hey! i just sold my first pitch! 
old man: slow down! 
woman: lookin'good. 
mailman: my man! 
(jerry dials on his cellphone. as he walks, he passes the same three people repeatedly.) 
simulation beth: (at simulation smith house) answers phone hello. 
jerry: guess who just sold the apples campaign. 
simulation beth: who just sold the apples campaign? 
jerry: me! i guess it wasn't a rip-off of"got milk?"after all. guess someone was wrong. 
simulation beth: yes. 
jerry: well, all is forgiven, because right now, i ve got an erection the size of an east coast lighthouse, and i m coming home to share it with my beautiful wife. 
simulation beth: okay. 
jerry: wait, really? 
simulation beth: yes. 
jerry: yes! see you in 10 minutes! hangs up, shouts hey! i'm going to make love to my wife! 
woman: lookin'good. 
old man: slow down! 
mailman: my man! glitches into a tree 
[transition to backstage] 
(rick is decked out in chains and adjusts his clothes to look more disheveled.) 
morty: aw, geez, rick. i-i don't know if i like this plan, you know? i mean, crowds, t-t-t-they have a tendency to make me really nervous. 
rick: morty, relax. it's just a bunch of 1s and 0s out there. you're gonna be fine. (lowers morty s pants slightly and puts a hat on him.) just follow my lead. (rick and morty fist bump.) yo, deejay, drop that beat. 
[transition to stage in park] 
(hip-hop beat plays. crowd cheers.) 
rick: uh-oh, morty. this crowd looks too small for one of our famous rap concerts. i don't think we can perform our new song,"the recipe for concentrated dark matter,"for a crowd this tiny. 
morty: you got that right, rick. 
(hordes of people appear from all directions and congregate in the park.) 
rick: now that s more like it! morty, here we go. let me hear everybody say"hey-oh!"yeah! (crowd cheers.) all the ladies say,"yeah!" (ladies cheer.) everybody over thirty, do this with your hands! everybody with a red shirt, jump up and down! (people start glitching.) 
[transition to smith house] 
jerry: kisses beth, who is still in front of the phone mm. mm. mm. yeah, don't move. mm, mm, mm, mm! mm! 
[transition to park] 
rick: yo, everyone whose first name begins with an"l"who isn't hispanic, walk in a circle the same number of times as the square root of your age times ten! (simulation freezes. rick and morty jump offstage.) run, morty! before the system reboots! 
[transition to ext. smith house.] 
jerry: yeah! you like that? now who's unremarkable? you hungry for apples? are you hungry for apples?! 
[transition to beth and jerry’s bedroom.] 
(jerry lies in bed beside beth, who is frozen in place.) 
jerry: oh, my god. that's the best sex i've ever had in my life. it's it's too good. i don't deserve this, beth. i'm a fraud. 
[transition to rick and morty running through frozen simulation.] 
morty: oh, man, rick! w-w-w-where we running to? 
rick: out of the simulation, morty. normally, the chamber operates like a treadmill, with the virtual world disappearing behind us and being rendered in front of us as we move through it, but while it's frozen, morty, we can get to the edge. here we go. jumps off the edge 
